In my last blog post, I talked about how to dig yourself out of data
debt. One of questions I received concerned how to avoid data debt to
begin with. I'm happy to oblige with an answer. Data debt is the
practice of implementing new technologies non-strategically---thus
creating a gap between spending and ROI, or debt. I can't tell you that
you can avoid data debt entirely, but there are questions you can ask of
your organization that will help guide your decisions and reduce your
exposure.

These questions are not new, but the context in which you consider them
is. Technology has changed rapidly in the past 5 years, and the pace of
change is only accelerating. Where once you may have given a particular
answer, that answer might change given the availability---and
suitability---of technologies for your organization.

1.  **Do we need it, or do we want it, and does it fit our strategy**?
    There are almost innumerable new analytics technologies on the
    market. Don't buy something just because it's new and powerful. You
    might not need all the capabilities a tool set offers. Be realistic
    with your needs and your resources. Even if you do believe you need
    a specific technology, be sure that it will integrate within your
    existing IT strategy and infrastructure without inordinate
    disruption. Implement incrementally and prove the concept to deliver
    quick wins and tangible value.

2.  **Are we looking at the future---will it grow and flex?** The market
    is littered with technologies that were cutting edge just a
    half-decade ago. The problem with most of them was that their
    analytics and presentation layers couldn't evolve with changing
    analysis demands---especially the need to process unstructured data.
    Avoid data debt by choosing a tool set with the data storage,
    analytics capabilities, and presentation layer that will handle the
    data types and analysis needs you have now, and those you anticipate
    having in the future.

3.  **What's the payoff?** When you implement a new analytics
    capability, you must be able to clearly define the goals of the
    project---the payoff. Do you need deeper insights into your
    business? The ability to more accurately predict what will happen
    based on scenario modeling? The ability to prescribe actions based
    on those models, thus enabling more efficient operations and better
    decision-making? The technology you choose, and every decision you
    make about the project, must be driven by those goals. If they're
    not, you're asking for lowered ROI and data debt.

4.  **Can we do it with the resources we have, and if not, are we
    willing to ramp up?** No company has unlimited resources. If the
    technology you want to implement will require more resources than
    you currently have, admit it, plan for it, and find a way to pay for
    it. If you try to implement an analytics project with a short staff
    or by cutting monetary corners, you will most likely fail, and your
    data debt will grow exponentially as your ROI flatlines. If you
    don't have all the resources you need when you start, my advice is
    the same as it is in Q1: implement incrementally, show quick wins,
    and get more funding as you go.

5.  **How can I Ensure the Anticipated ROI?** You can't. But you can try
    to make sure the plan you start with is close to the system you end
    up with. First, develop a realistic picture of what the technology
    will cost, both in time and capital, to implement, then plan for
    points where costs could balloon---unanticipated hardware costs,
    difficulty integrating new capabilities into the current technical
    architecture, unanticipated customization---the list is almost
    endless. Second, avoid too much scope-creep. Clearly delineate which
    capabilities you're implementing. If a requested capability is
    outside the scope, park it and implement it in a later phase. If you
    know what your actual spend is, and you stay within your scope, you
    should be able to ballpark, and meet, your ROI.

My final piece of advice is this: The environment will change during the
lifetime of an analytics project. These days, it's changing faster than
ever. Be prepared to meet---and embrace those changes---by using the
tools you need, and enough resources, to build your system incrementally
and via a well-organized, informed method that shows value early on with
quick wins. Your system won't be perfect, but if you're disciplined and
honest with yourself, it will most likely be successful and keep you out
of data debt.

I'd love to hear what you think. You can comment or DM me on
[Twitter](https://twitter.com/dinojain), message me on <Linkedin>, or
email me at <anuraag.jain@thinkbiganalytics.com>.
