Ten years ago, providing self-service business intelligence (BI)
capabilities to democratize analytics power across the organization was
high on the list of most companies' CIOs. With the data and tools of the
time, it was possible, and many companies did a good job of implementing
self-service BI---at least to "power users."

However, over the past decade the deluge of big data has swamped
self-service BI at many companies. The complexity of data sets---not to
mention the methods and tools used to analyze data---has made it
difficult for business users to perform their own reporting and
analyses. As a result, analytics democracy has receded at many
companies, and data scientists tasked with extracting knowledge and
insights from big data have often become de facto report providers.

Besides data complexity, there are other hurdles to democratizing
analytics. At many organizations, data is fragmented across different
platforms and systems. It's difficult to standardize and govern data
that's distributed throughout different functions and systems. Finally,
security is a concern with widely dispersed data and access. All these
issues can be addressed, and if you do, you'll be on your way to
restoring analytics democracy and reaping the benefits.

### Consolidate Data

Siloed data is the first barrier to democratized analytics.
Fragmentation in systems and data hobbles efforts at enterprise-wide
analysis and creates an environment where there is no single version of
the truth about organizational data. The remedy for this is data
consolidation. The best solution for data consolidation is to move data
to the cloud. However, if you're not ready to make that leap, at a
minimum democratizing analytics requires a common (or federated) data
store with clean, standardized data that provides the same answers to
the same questions, i.e., it creates borderless data.

### Secure and Govern

Yes, I harp on this, but it's true. It's crucial to have good data
governance---especially when you're developing a borderless data
environment. Clear and enforced data governance policies and procedures,
as well as strong data security, is paramount. Data masking and
encryption are fundamental security strategies, as well as implementing
role-based access. If you do it right, sound data governance can
actually drive business agility by giving the right people the right
access to the clean data they need, when they need it, and it can
ameliorate concerns about data falling into the wrong hands.

### Get the Right Tools

Once you have all that consolidated, clean, secured data, you need tools
that enable end users to access and interpret it without having to be
data scientists themselves. I'm not going to discuss the technicalities
of architecture here, but at a broad level, it's crucial to have a data
architecture that supports many different tool types, and that is
flexible and scalable to change and grow with you as your analysis needs
change.

Data visualization is also fundamental. Business users should have the
ability to customize views, develop dashboards and graphical
models---and change them as necessary---to view answers to their
questions as visual representations rather than in rows and columns, or
as the numeric results of statistical calculations. With the right
architecture and tools, self-service access and collaboration is
facilitated, and decision-making becomes a democratic process rather
than a fragmented, competitive race.

### The Upside

What's the payoff? Faster, better decision-making that's done
collaboratively and securely. When you give business people access to
information they need to do their jobs, and trust and encourage them to
use their newfound power, you'll realize the benefits.

For example, instead of waiting on IT/data science to feed them reports
about lead-scoring models, your salespeople can pull the information
themselves and follow the most promising leads to optimize their
personal sales process and get a jump on maximizing sales volume. Your
marketing people can see graphic representations of customer-channel
interaction data and use that data to develop more effective
segmentation strategies and customized campaigns and opportune,
individualized offers. The uses of democratized analytics are as many
and myriad as the companies that use analytics.

The bottom line is this: By putting analytics power in the hands of
business people in sales, marketing, finance, logistics, etc., you
empower them to make their own data-backed decisions, using their unique
expertise and perspective. Data scientists are then freed up to focus on
the high-value, deep data analysis activities that you hired them for in
the first place. Finally, analytics democratization also encourages
collaboration and cross-pollination of ideas and experiences across the
organization, which will ultimately lead to quicker, more well-informed
decisions that drive change and help you reach your goals faster. That's
not a bad payoff.
