A Smarter, Faster Way to Operationalize Analytics

Operationalizing analytics is the new black. It's the hottest
catchphrase around, and everyone wants to do it, even if they don't
really understand what it entails, or how to do it. The mantra is to
'just get it done.' But what is it? I define operationalized analytics
as having a sustainable, repeatable process to quickly deploy predictive
and prescriptive analytics models throughout the organization.

With the advent of evermore sophisticated analytics tools, coupled with
the deluge of unstructured data, this 'mass-production' model
development capability will quickly become mandatory in deploying
successful analytics solutions.

Truly operationalized analytics has a few mandatory characteristics:

1.  Good data and governance

2.  An iterative, business led development ecosystem

3.  Self-service capabilities that fit all (or most) users

Good Data
---------

If I ask you what the team name of the MLB club in Atlanta is, and you
tell me, "It's the Atlanta Braves," but you tell someone else who asks
that the team's name is really the Chiefs, and you tell yet a third
person that it's the Jaguars, eventually people will catch on that your
information is false and you're not trustworthy. It's the same with
analytics systems. If people don't get the same answers to the same
questions, they won't trust the system.

That's why it's so important to have consistent---and consistently
good---data throughout your company's information repositories.
Consistent data requires a strong governance initiative in place to
ensure that policies are set and followed. The governance effort must
also be empowered---and accountable to---the C-suite.

An Iterative, Business-Led Development Ecosystem
------------------------------------------------

The number one driver for analytics development should be to build
systems that can be put into production quickly to drive faster, deeper
insights into the business---and that are flexible enough to change with
market conditions. To build these flexible, reliable systems, you need
the ability to develop and deploy models quickly---based on business
value---and make the decision to move to production and scale up, or
close and retrench.

It's critical that you have a framework in place that enables you to
build flexible, repeatable models for analytics deployment. By utilizing
an appropriate framework---with accelerators that help you deploy faster
and at scale---you can build an analytics ecosystem where you can
develop, deploy, consume, and scale---all in an iterative cycle. As
models are deployed, your model-development framework should also give
you the capability to monitor and manage performance to ensure
consistent performance and alert you when problems arise.

Self-Service Analytics that Fit All (or Most) Users
---------------------------------------------------

Users come equipped with a variety of skills. Some are power users who
can practically develop the system themselves. At the other end of the
spectrum are those who are really neophytes who need hand-holding to use
any sort of analytics capabilities. Most users fall somewhere in
between. Your analytics model-building environment must accommodate as
many of these users as possible, and in the most efficient way.

That's where self-service analytics comes in. Most top-notch analytics
model-development frameworks give users the ability to construct models
and adjust with them, based on the results they get. Users can explore
the data, ask new questions, and gain new insights based on results from
analyzing different hypotheses fed into multiple models. It's a
democratized sandbox where users can play on equal grounds, despite
their level of expertise and can participate in the generation of new
insights that help grow the bottom line.

The wild-west days of analytics deployment, where different business
functions developed analytics systems to suit their own needs, is
rapidly drawing to a close. Most savvy companies have realized that, to
build analytics that yield consistent answers that drive deeper, quicker
organizational insights, you need to operationalize analytics---to make
it into sort of an industry within your organization. In the rush to
operationalize, make sure you do it right. Make sure your data is good,
that the business leads in building repeatable models, and that the
capabilities can be accessed by the people who need them.
