---
title: 'Let''s Get Digital---With your Supply Network that is'
---

Everyone's going digital with their supply networks, aren't they? Well,
no, they aren't. They should be, but in my conversations with clients
and colleagues, it's my estimation that only about 30% of companies are
in the process of implementing a digital supply network (DSN). Probably
another 60% plan---or want---to. What's the big deal? Do DSNs live up to
the hype? Yes, if you do it right.

This week and next, I'm going to discuss the benefits and key challenges
of building a DSN, and we'll take a look at some real-world examples of
how companies are improving their operations by taking on the challenge
to leave the traditional supply chain behind and move to an
interconnected network of partners that helps you create a strategic
advantage and grow your bottom line.

DSNs Defined
------------

When you create a DSN, you do truly leave the old supply chain mentality
behind. Information no longer flows linearly. Instead, you [create an
ecosystem](http://apps.teradata.com/tdmo/v08n03/Features/CoverStory/SupplyChain.aspx)
where information flows to and from who and where its needed, when its
needed, so that efficiency is maximized throughout the network.
Information latency is no longer an issue, because on-demand, near
real-time information flow creates almost instantaneous insights that
are accessible to all interested and authorized parties.

DSNs---What They Can do for You
-------------------------------

The benefits of these freed-up, on-demand information flows are
enormous. First, more timely information can help you reduce costs by
improving efficiency. The back-and-forth data flows can also help you
gain the information you need to make product improvements more quickly,
which results in more satisfied customers. More satisfied customers
leads to a better reputation, and with that reputation and better
information in the hands of your management and salespeople, your sales
effectiveness can soar.

On a macro level, increased information flow speed gives you the
insights you need to develop more effective business strategies, which
leads to more business opportunities and helps you create new strategic
advantages.

[It's all about the flow---and the
speed](https://www.teradata.com/Resources/Brochures/Teradata-Supply-Chain-Accelerator,-for-SAP).
If you know more things more quickly than your competitors, you can make
quicker decisions and meet market demands faster, which makes you
flexible enough to change with the markets---and you know they don't
ever sit still.

DSN Challenges
--------------

As with anything worth having though, there are some challenges to
building a true DSN. They're daunting, but not insurmountable, and it'll
be worth it in the end to meet them.

Talent will be your first obstacle. Advanced analytics capabilities are
the heart of any DSN. And, if you haven't been hiding under a rock for
the past five years, you know that the demand for analytics skills is
currently outpacing supply. Fortunately that's changing. More
universities are turning out more quant jocks these days, and more IT
people are re-skilling to meet the need.

Data management will be your next hurdle. If you don't have clean,
organized data, it will be hard to make it flow through the ecosystem.
Governance is key, along with programs to remove information silos
across your enterprise, and then from your supply network at large, to
build a consistent, high-quality data set for your supply network---end
to end.

Unfortunately, perhaps the biggest challenge you'll have to overcome is
the "yeah-buts." Yeah, but we're doing fine with what we have. Why
should we invest millions in some supply matrix technology we don't
understand? Yeah, but can you show the business value before we spend
all that money? Yeah, but do we have the buy-in from our stakeholders
and partners that we need to pull this thing off? The list is endless,
but you get my point.

These political challenges will represent the biggest threat to your DSN
project. Do everything you can to educate all stakeholders---your Board,
your C-suite colleagues, your suppliers, and your customers. Build a
sound business case to show them how this thing will benefit them.
There's a litany of information out there about the benefits and value
of building a DSN. Like the Caveman commercials say, "Do a little
research." Don't just build it. They will not come. Build the business
case. Show the value. Get the buy-in.

Looking Forward
---------------

No doubt, building a DSN will give you the timely information and
insights to help you compete more effectively. You'll be able to create
better products, move them more efficiently, and satisfy your customers
on a whole new level. Next week, we'll discuss some real-world examples
of how DSNs deliver on their promise. Stay tuned!
