---
title: 'Is Your Analytics Program on the Bad Santa List?'
---

It's that time of year! Santa is coming! To some, he brings wonderful
presents. To others\--who are on the bad list---he brings a lump of
coal. Which one will you get this year? Well, not you personally, but
your analytics program. Does it work hard for your company and provide
you with what you need, or is it on the Bad Santa List?

This is obviously facetious, but there's a serious underlying concern
here. As the year ends, it's a good time to take stock of how well your
analytics systems are working. If it seems as if your analytics
infrastructure isn't delivering value by providing you with the answers
you seek, maybe it's time to re-assess and ask why. There are a few
common reasons why analytics doesn't live up to its potential. I'll
discuss them here and provide some advice on how to address them---and
stay off the Bad Santa List.

Bad Tools
=========

Analytics isn't a one-size-or-product-fits-all deal. Every tool or
technology that finds its way to the market won't be right for you. Your
business needs should dictate your analytics capabilities. Every tool
and technology you've deployed should function to meet a defined set of
business needs.

Do you use each analytics application in your infrastructure, or are
there applications people avoid because they're hard to use or
untrustworthy? Does each analytics tool you use deliver value to the
organization? If you don't like your answers, it's time to re-assess
your analytics infrastructure and make a commitment to choosing the
right tools for *you*, not the software sales person.

Bad Governance
==============

The tsunami of unstructured data has overwhelmed most companies' data
governance programs. Many are struggling to develop governance policies
for data that they don't understand and can't wrangle. As a result, some
have all but given up and just load the data into data lakes (or similar
stores) and hope for usable information from queries and analyses. Hope
isn't really an option if you want to drive value with analytics.

You can govern unstructured data. The key is to hit the sweet spot
between data governance flexibility and control. If your governance
program is too flexible, your data will be dirty, and no one will trust
the answers. Conversely, if you overzealously govern, you'll reduce the
advantage that data lakes and similar technologies can provide when
implemented as part of an overall IT architecture. In your governance
program, consider all data types and set up policies and procedures for
each type. Integrate them and govern accordingly.

Bad Team
========

Technology is ever-changing. Today's hot technology may be obsolete in
two years. The skill sets of your analytics team must change
accordingly. If you're not getting the value you need out of your
analytics systems, even though you've invested in appropriate tools and
hardware, it might be time to assess the composition of your analytics
team.

You can ensure that your team members are well trained. What you can't
ensure is that they want to be trained---that they have the right
mindset and personal makeup to embrace change and contribute to
delivering analytics value.

In my opinion, besides the foundational ability to solve problems,
analytics team members should have the following characteristics:

-   Curiosity

-   Creativity

-   Confidence

-   Perseverance

-   Communication skills

All these traits are crucial. Your team must be ready, every day, to
take on the problems they face and help answer the tough questions you
ask. If they aren't, it may be time to make some hard decisions.

Bad Leadership and Strategy
===========================

This is a tough one. No one wants to read that they may not be doing the
best they can at leading their team. But most often, it's not the
capabilities of individual leaders that are at issue. Instead, it's that
analytics leadership---and strategy---is fragmented, both in terms of
personnel and goals.

If analytics is left to individual business functions to implement as
their needs dictate, the corporate analytics strategy and infrastructure
will be fragmented. You've read this many times, but I'll reiterate it
because it's critically important: you must have one person---or at
least a small unified team---in charge of analytics at the corporate
level. If you don't your fragmented environment will get worse, and your
analytics implementation will leak value like a sieve.

My Bad Santa List theme is rather tongue-in-cheek, but the issues I
raise here are real. Analytics technology is expensive to implement, and
a bad implementation can have a high cost, both for your company---and
potentially for you. As the year ends, take the time to assess your
tools, governance plan, team, and leadership and strategy. If you need
to make changes, find the money---and the political will---to do it.

I'd love to hear what you think. You can comment or DM me on
[Twitter](https://twitter.com/dinojain), message me on <Linkedin>, or
email me at <anuraag.jain@thinkbiganalytics.com>.
