---
title: 'Can Your Data Warehouse Survive Big Data? Yes, if You do it Right.'
---

Thirty years ago (really?), when Devlin and Murphy coined the term,
"data warehouse," (DW) and introduced the fundamentals of its design, it
was a revolutionary concept.[^1] It had the potential to change the way
business was done. And it did, but over the years data warehousing has
had its rough times, and in the IT lexicon the term has often been
synonymous with "boondoggle," and "spectacular failure."

Yet, there are scores of companies out there---think Wal Mart and
Amazon---that have succeeded beyond their wildest expectations because
they built data warehouses that enabled them to understand their
business better and chart a profitable course based on the insights they
gained. And, what's more, they've managed to harness the power of the
most important IT development, well, ever: Big Data

Big Changes with Big Data
-------------------------

The inundation of data---especially the unstructured variety---has put a
strain on enterprise DWs like never before. No doubt, there's a data
tsunami out there, but the real story with Big Data isn't the size, it's
the type---unstructured data. Traditional DWs simply aren't built to
accommodate it, and there are Henny-Penny pundits galore who are
predicting the demise of the venerable data warehouse.

To be sure, Big Data has spurred a need to bolster traditional DW
environments with new capabilities---to extend the architecture and
build a seamless, comprehensive DW architecture. Adding these
capabilities will help you leverage Big Data to truly fulfill the
purpose of your DW and---if it's failing, rescue it---or if it's
adequate, make it great.

Here's what you need to build your comprehensive DW architecture:

1.  The ability to process unstructured data. You need to be able to
    pull information from many sources---customer call logs, emails,
    images, web pages, audio files---basically anything that can't be
    readily loaded into a traditional database. Data lakes are one
    example of this type of capability. They use technologies like
    Hadoop to aggregate, store, and prepare data on query, rather than
    on load, to facilitate less formal data exploration. Traditional DWs
    don't allow this, so these technologies are indispensable.

2.  New ways to connect to the data. Traditional ETL technologies won't
    work with new data needs. Instead, you need specialized connectors
    that enable on-demand data access to get the data stored in data
    lakes built using Hadoop (or similar) technologies.

3.  Flexible data storage capabilities. You'll most likely employ both
    cloud and traditional storage, but make sure that you don't go too
    far in hybridizing your storage. Keep your DW data in one store.
    Pick either one, but keep it in one type of storage to ensure that
    your speed of access isn't compromised.

4.  More off-the-shelf, pre-built analytics models to facilitate
    quicker, more uniform analysis. That flood of data will bog down
    your analysis speed, so you'll also want to avail yourself of a tool
    that comes with pre-built analytics models that can be customized to
    meet your specific needs. Why re-invent the wheel if you just need a
    new set of rims?

5.  Better systems management and governance. This is critical. With Big
    Data comes the need to build really large and maddeningly complex
    architectures. Automation and governance are a must. Automate where
    you can: build self-monitoring and self-tuning capabilities into
    your architecture. Also, implement an enterprise-wide data
    governance function to ensure that your data is consistent, no
    matter who's querying it.

6.  Democratization of analysis capabilities via a presentation layer
    that enables natural-language queries instead of making everyone
    learn SQL. Queries should read like, "Find all customers who clicked
    on multiple sub-categories within a web page, and multiple products,
    but didn't add anything to the shopping cart."

What's in it for You?
---------------------

I won't lie; it won't be cheap or easy to build a comprehensive DW
architecture to accommodate Big Data, but you really don't have a choice
if you want to stay competitive. If you do it right, however, the
benefits will be well worth the cost.

Building a comprehensive DW architecture will enable you to see what's
happening at a both a more-granular and panoramic level---at the same
time. You'll be able to better understand customer behavior and identify
behavioral triggers and take action to incent---or mitigate---them.
You'll also get deeper insight into your interactions with customers to
match offers to needs and improve customer service and reduce churn. You
can optimize your supply networks and right-size your business for
margin improvement. I could go on forever; the benefits are too numerous
to list them all.

The bottom line is that you'll have the insights you need to truly
understand and grow your business like never before---and crush your
competition. Who doesn't want that?

[^1]: \"[An architecture for a business and information
    system](http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/5387658/)\". IBM Systems
    Journal. 27: 60--80. 1988.
