Driving Value, the Right Way
============================

You can't ignore it. Well, you can but sticking your head in the sand
won't stop the analytics landscape from changing more rapidly than it
has at any time in the past ten years. How will you lead your company
through this ever-changing environment? Big data analytics, artificial
intelligence, the internet of things, digital twinning, nascent quantum
computing---the list is almost endless.

Do you need to become an expert on each technology? No. Do you need to
implement each of these breakthrough technologies? No. Is your
competition thinking about this IT revolution and taking action?
Absolutely.

Companies that will be winners in this IT revolution won't be those that
dabble in every technological toybox that hits the market. Instead,
they'll be the ones that choose the right technology---and the right
people to deploy it---for their business, and that devise the best
strategy to implement it to drive value and produce optimal results
quickly and efficiently.

Technology
----------

This one's actually easy. Every business needs some sort of analysis
capability. The bigger you are, and the more complex your business is,
the more sophisticated technology you need. I don't need to tell you
that. The key to choosing the technology that's right for you is to look
at where you are---and where you want to be, and match the technology to
the goals.

A robust [technology maturity
model](http://analyticsology.com/2016/03/23/list-of-6-analytics-maturity-models/)
(TMM) can help. It can help you assess where you are, and where you want
to be, on the technology-sophistication scale. No TMM will fit your
business, or maturity stage, perfectly; they're necessarily generic and
wide-ranging in their assessment criteria. However, most of them will
give you a pretty good idea of where you are and what the stages beyond
your current state are.

Plan your technology infrastructure based on a realistic assessment of
your current stage and the stage you can realistically achieve. For
example, if you're in a low-maturity stage, it probably won't be
possible to get to a highly-realized maturity stage in a short time. So,
start building your infrastructure stage by stage until you reach your
goal. As one of the old IT clich√©s goes, don't try to boil the ocean.
Maybe just heat it up a little as you go.

People
------

You've probably heard all the titles and monikers: [data
scientist](https://www.kdnuggets.com/2015/11/different-data-science-roles-industry.html),
data architect, data visualizer, data engineer, quant jock, data ninja,
etc. There are as many titles and sobriquets as there are tools they
use. How do you know which one(s) you need?

The title is almost irrelevant. What's important is how their mind
works. Below are my top-five essential qualities for the people you
hire---both from a technical and managerial perspective---to help you
turn your data into information that drives insights and value:

-   Analytical mindset

-   Curiosity

-   Creativity

-   Perseverance

-   Excellent communication skills

You can buy the most feature-rich and sophisticated analytics tools on
the market, and you can throw money at an analytics project until you
run out, but if you don't have the right people, with the right mix of
skills and an analytical mindset, your project will almost certainly
fail. People are that important.

Strategy
--------

Even if you build the most technically powerful and elegant analytics
infrastructure possible, it doesn't mean people will use it. Why?
Because in all its technical glory, the analytics capabilities you
deploy may not meet their needs. Analytics strategies involve high
stakes for your company. They're your roadmap to success. If your map is
faulty, your project will falter.

When you're devising your [analytics
strategy](https://www.thinkbiganalytics.com/business-analytics-roadmap/),
it's essential to have very specific goals, and explicit, measurable
plans and metrics to meet those goals. Target those goals toward your
most important business priorities. Also, give the development team
autonomy to choose proof-of-concept or pilot projects that will meet
your goals and deliver data-driven insights quickly to show the value of
your initiative to the organization.

In the development process, use techniques such as use cases, persona
development, and journey mapping to ensure that the analytics you deploy
work for the people you're trying to help. Create a systematic approach
to analytics development that enables you to start small, win fast, and
then deploy with a scalable, flexible method.

Just Do It
==========

Deploying analytics the right way is a big challenge, but it's one you
must meet to compete. Chances are, you have some form of analytics in
place. Unfortunately, to keep up with your competition and retain and
grow market share, you'll need to implement new analytics technologies
and scale up frequently. If you have the right mix of tech, people, and
a strong analytics strategy, it still won't be easy, but it will be
doable.

I'd like to hear your thoughts about implementing analytics initiatives.
Contact me at <anu.jain@thinkbiganalytics.com> or find me on Twitter.
Also, if you like what you're reading, please click below to share it.
