Designing Analytics Success

I wrote last week about building intelligent analytics systems by
putting people at the center of the design process. I call this process
Cognitive Design. This week, we're going to delve more deeply into just
what Cognitive Design is how it's implemented by putting people at the
center of systems design.

Cognitive Design, as it applies to analytics, is the iterative process
of combining user experience and context with the right technology to
create dynamic analytics ecosystems. These ecosystems can help companies
solve complex problems in an atmosphere where the variables are often
unknown and always changing.

Using Cognitive Design principles, you can foster innovation and gain
insights to generate ideas, ask new questions, and quickly prototype and
implement innovative analytics solutions.

Cognitive Design doesn't just happen. It's an active process. The first
step is to think like a designer. The idea is to innovate---to find a
solution, not just list problems to overcome. Obviously, you're trying
to solve a problem, or you wouldn't be building an analytics system in
the first place, but the idea here is to focus on the *solution*, not
just fixes to overcome discrete issues.

For example, the *problem* might be that management doesn't have the
insight they need into their supply chain. That's thinking about what
you don't have. If you think that way, you're likely to think only about
ways to solve that specific problem. The Cognitive Design process
enables you to think innovatively, and listen to your customers---in
this case your management and knowledge workers---to arrive at a
solution.

For example, the *solution* might be to build a cloud-based,
cognitive-enabled, interconnected supply network that optimizes your
operations and gives you the insight you need to foresee problems and
take advantage of opportunities. It's a shift in perspective that can
make a world of difference in how you approach your initiative.

In building your innovative solution, it's critical to put people first,
and really understand how they think. That's the cognitive part. Put
trust in the experience of your user base to understand the ecosystem in
which they operate, and to know how to solve the problems they face.

Using Cognitive Design, you can open the design process to create an
ideation environment where all ideas are explored and valued. There will
be good parts of nearly every idea, and you can combine ideas in novel
ways. Again, you can't simply envision from a problem viewpoint.
Visualize SOLUTIONS.

The next step in the Cognitive Design process is to take the best ideas
and model those. Create working prototypes and evaluate their
performance against requirements. When evaluating prototypes, set
yourself up to fail quickly. That's not to say you *want* to fail, but
have an iterative process in place that lets you continually ask: should
we scale up this model, or just move on?

The best solution will be the one(s) that hits the sweet spot between
innovation and practicality. In making the choice, use criteria that can
be both quantified and qualified. Rely on the experience and intuition
of decision-makers and knowledge workers to make the best choice.

Also---and this is a big one---don't trade the most effective solution
for pennies. Cost matters, but it shouldn't be the final arbiter of
which solution is chosen. Within established constraints, use the most,
and the best, resources available to execute the chosen solution.
Execute as quickly and effectively as possible to realize results in the
quickest timeframe.

Take solutions that are working on a smaller scale and push those
innovations through to the entire organization. As solutions scale up
from small to enterprise-wide, companies that employ a Cognitive Design
approach are able to leverage lessons learned in the design process to
tweak those solutions to maximize the effectiveness at scale.

So now that we've explored what Cognitive Design is and roughly how to
go about it, next week we'll talk about why you should use it, i.e.,
what it can do for you and how the solutions you generate can be truly
innovative.
