**Two Hot Analytics Trends for 2018**

Happy New Year! So what's new for 2018? Everyone has an opinion about
2018's hot trends for analytics and BI. I have my own, and I think the
analytics marketplace is poised for an explosion of new technologies and
products, but I think there will be two trends that transform the
analytics/BI landscape in 2018:

1.  Machine Learning to Augment self-service analytics

2.  Data governance makes a comeback

Machine Learning to Augment Self-Service Analytics
--------------------------------------------------

As more sophisticated, and easy-to-use, analytics tools have hit the
market in the past five years, self-service analytics has become a
must-have for just about any company in any industry. To be sure,
self-service capabilities take some of the pressure off IT staffs to
produce, and they've created a new generated of citizen data scientists,
but that's a double-edged sword.

As data volumes become larger and more complex, citizen data-scientists
are often overwhelmed by the process. Increasingly, decisions require
cross-functional knowledge, and the number of variables that drive
decision making and actionable insights is multiplied almost
exponentially. As a result, business people acting as analysts often
fall back on their biases and only explore the hypotheses they started
with. Thus, they're likely to miss key insights that may go against
their biases or hypotheses. When that happens, decision-making is
hampered by incomplete or faulty information, and the analytics effort
suffers.

Enter AI---specifically, machine learning. Machine learning algorithms
will serve to augment analysts' knowledge and enrich their understanding
of their decision-making environment---spanning departments and
functions. This will take place across the analytics continuum from data
preparation, to analysis, to insight, to action.

Augmented analytics and data preparation will enable "Smart" data
discovery that will eliminate, or greatly reduce, bias in
decision-making via an impartial view of the data and the results
produced from the analysis of it. The result? A virtuous cycle of
increased trust in the analytics system, which leads to high user
adoption rates (more people making better decisions). This leads to
increased ROI via better decision making and the ability to act more
quickly on those decisions.

Data Governance Makes a Comeback
--------------------------------

A client once complained to me that he was, "Drowning in data but dying
for information." That was almost 20 years ago, and it's only gotten
worse as data has increased in volume, velocity, and variety. The flood
of data that inundates most companies on a daily basis is enough to fill
airplane hangar's worth of old mainframe computers. What's more, the
majority of data these days is unstructured. How do you make sense of
all that data? How do you standardize it and make it usable? That's
where good Data Governance (DG)---and the necessity for a Chief Data
Officer (CDO)---comes in.

Some of my colleagues make a good argument that there's not room in the
C-suite for one more person---especially one whose only concern is data.
Maybe that was true five years ago, but not today. CIO's have their
plates full with organizational strategy, data security, and overall
analytics implementation. Data governance work is mired in the muck of
technology and politics, and with the volume and types of data that need
to be governed, the process of DG needs a dedicated leader.

Data governance is primarily concerned with making sure that data is
consolidated, standardized and governed across the enterprise. It's also
process-oriented. One of its critical mandates is overcoming cultural
and territorial boundaries to put policies and procedures in place that
ensure that the organizational data, no matter the system it resides in,
is high-quality and provides a "single version of the truth" to anyone
who accesses it. For that to happen, someone needs to take
accountability for the impact that good---or bad---data has on the
organization.

That's where the CDO comes in. Under a CDO, the DG function can garner
the visibility, budget, and resources to meet its mandate. Additionally,
a CDO can provide the strategic guidance to the DG process to steer the
effort through choppy political waters that de-centralized DG efforts
cannot. So, yes, it's always a good idea to think before you split
executive responsibilities and add yet another direct report to the CEO,
but in this case, because data is such a valuable strategic, yet
complex, asset, the CDO position has become mandatory.

To be sure, there are other analytics trends that will emerge in 2018,
but I think these two---because they impact the adoption and control of
data---will underpin most of them in one way or another. It's going to
be an interesting year.

I'd love to hear what you think about the hot trends for 2018. You can
comment or DM me on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/dinojain), message me
on [Linkedin](https://www.linkedin.com/in/anujain/), or email me at
<anuraag.jain@thinkbiganalytics.com>.
