My kid wanted a pair of virtual reality (VR) goggles. He wanted to walk
with dinosaurs. It's a harmless pursuit, so I bought him a pair. We
won't talk about how I use them more than he does now, though. What I
will talk about is how the VR craze---and digital reality (DR) in
general---is moving from a consumer tool to spice up your life to a way
for companies to improve the way they do business.

Over the past decade, several factors have made widespread use of DR
technologies possible. Mobile bandwidth has increased, device batteries
last longer, and application environments support more integration.
Also, true to Moore's law, as the use of technology has increased,
prices have come down, and availability is nearly ubiquitous.

So what exactly is DR? Digital reality is the umbrella term for
technologies such as augmented reality (AR), virtual reality, mixed
reality (MR), and other immersive, multi-sensory experiences. All these
technologies incorporate varying degrees of reality augmentation or
replacement, but the bottom line is that they are built to enrich our
day-to-day, human experience and give us new, and uniquely personalized,
ways to view and interact with our surroundings.

### The Business Side of DR

Digital reality isn't just for play. Sure, you can walk with dinosaurs
and experience an auto race near first-hand, but more and more,
forward-thinking companies are using this confluence to leverage DR
technologies to change the way they do business. Indeed, DR technologies
are changing the game for companies and providing opportunities for
knowledge workers to be integrally involved in technology deployment in
ways heretofore unheard of.

DR will upend the current worker-technology model. It will change the
way we collaborate; it will change how we share and incorporate
knowledge; and it will change how we deal with technology itself.

#### Collaboration

We've all used tools to have conference and video-conference calls. It
brings us closer together and makes flying to and fro not the necessity
it once was. However, DR technologies make these capabilities look
positively stone-age. With DR, you can actually "see" and "feel" what
your non-co-located workers are experiencing. For example, an engineer
for a pipeline company could use DR technologies and see what her
workers are grappling with as they struggle to fix a burst pipe. She can
direct their every move to get the repair done quickly and more
effectively than with a conference call where someone juggles a
camera-equipped mobile phone.

#### Knowledge

Conceptualization is often the most opaque part of the product
development phase. Until you've built a model, it's difficult to see how
all the moving parts will work. With DR technologies, conceptualization
comes to life. For example, wearing DR glasses, aerospace engineers can
see---and manipulate---three-dimensional models of an aircraft or
satellite's design and observe simulated testing scenarios to spot
potential problems and deal with them before expensive models are built.
This saves time and money and lends greater efficiency and accuracy to
the development process.

#### Technology

Widespread adoption of DR technologies will bring about a sea-change in
the way we store data and integrate applications. DR technologies are
data hogs---there's no way around it. Current VR glasses---with their
360-degree view---take up probably 20 or 30 times the data storage space
of a standard video file. As DR technologies morph and grow, that figure
will increase exponentially. The solution? [The
cloud](https://www.teradata.com/Products/IntelliCloud). If you haven't
made the move to the cloud before, you'll need to if you implement any
type of DR tech. You won't be able to afford and maintain the storage
necessary for extensive DR adoption.

DR adoption will also force manufacturers to play nice with each other.
Companies wishing to implement DR technologies won't stand for being
told that every time they need to purchase new goggles or other new
technology components, that they'll have to stick with a single
manufacturer. Can you imagine if you bought one manufacturer's PC, only
to be told that no other manufacturer's peripherals would function with
it? That's my point. With future DR technology and system design, DR
components will be pan-functional with most ERP, CRM, and other
mission-critical systems and databases. It won't work otherwise.

### The Future's So Bright...

There's so much that's possible with DR technology, most of it still
years away, but some of it within our current grasp. The bottom line is
that the DR implementation curve is trending upward, and it's safe to
say that with its power and powerful---nearly unlimited future---DR
technologies are an excellent investment in the future that you can make
right now, if you do your research and invest judiciously. Are you in?
