In last week's blog, I talked about how machine learning (ML) can help
with data integration. Much of the feedback I received concerned how to
implement ML for data integration, but more broadly within the context
of analytics in general. Machine Learning can boost your analytics
efforts by helping computer systems learn in a manner that simulates
human learning. However, the technology you use to implement ML is not
nearly as important as the thought process behind your implementation.

Technically, ML is no different from any other analytics technology.
There's a method to it: ingest the data into a data lake or other large
data store, transform it for analysis, build and train a model, and
refine that model to help it learn and provide more accurate data for
analysis. However, along the way, you'll run into pitfalls that have
nothing to do with technology, but with how the technology is leveraged
to gain a deeper understanding of the business, and how---and by
whom---the goals for the ML initiative are defined.

There are a few steps you can take to ensure that your ML initiative
gets off, and stays, on the right footing. I'll discuss these steps in
terms of ML, but they really apply to any analytics effort.

Let the Business Lead the Way
-----------------------------

Technology is useless if it doesn't provide the outcomes you seek.
Usually, when a tech project fails, it's not the fault of the technology
itself. Rather, it's the fault of the people who defined the goals for
it. As with any technology, the outcomes for your ML initiative should
always be defined by the business. You can design and train the most
intricate ML models, but they'll be useless if they don't provide the
information that business owners need to do their jobs. Bottom line:
actionable insights from ML/analytics initiatives can be gained only if
the business leads the efforts.

Communicate the Power of the Technology
---------------------------------------

Again, the business must lead. Go all out on investing in the
technologies you need to integrate ML in your analytics initiative.
However, it is critical that business users understand the
technology---not the nuts and bolts of the higher math behind it, but
the general idea behind what you're trying to achieve technically, and
how you're going about it at a high level. Communicate the power of the
technology---be a champion for it and stress the importance of the
business objectives behind it, and how the ML technology will enable you
to meet them.

Keep the Dream in Mind
----------------------

The defining feature of ML technology is how it enhances the predictive
capabilities of analytics tools. Combined with emerging prescriptive
capabilities of leading analytics software, ML-enhanced analytics can
provide you with a powerful roadmap for future success. However, with
any project, you'll always have that person who says, "It can't be done;
we don't operate that way. It'll be too hard to change." Don't buy it.
You *can* do what you want, *if* you want it badly enough. Just because
you haven't done it in the past doesn't mean you can't do it now. Trust
the numbers and commit the resources to make it happen.

Pair Technology and Humans for Optimal Outcomes
-----------------------------------------------

As a corollary to what I just said, however, don't forget the human
element. Although ML enables you to go beyond human understanding to get
the insights you need to achieve better outcomes, humans still play a
large part in any ML/analytics endeavor. The combination of human
experience and ML-augmented insights will help you achieve optimal
outcomes. Trust the numbers, to be sure, but also trust the human
business users who have a deep knowledge of your markets, customers,
products, and services. By capitalizing on the connection between humans
and machines you can truly achieve the outcomes you seek---and move
beyond them to optimized operations and market leadership.
