**Going beyond Analytics to Intelligent Decisioning**

Years ago, in the dark ages of IT, the gold standard of decision-making
was to rely on hard lessons learned and good, old-fashioned gut
instinct, honed by those lessons. However, over the past decade or so,
big data has changed that standard. What's more, big data is only
getting bigger and more complex.

The result? An enormous imperative for companies---no matter their size
or business---to become "data driven." Data-driven companies invest in
ever-more sophisticated technology to collect and analyze massive
amounts of data, thinking if they have enough data, and develop
cutting-edge predictive and prescriptive tools to slice and dice that
data, they can solve even their most intractable problems. Yet, many
still don't have the answers they seek.

Has the data pendulum swung too far? Data is good, and big data is
better. However, without the ability to interpret data in its proper
context, that data is virtually meaningless---or at least its meaning
remains locked somewhere in the terabytes.

Companies are organic entities made up of living beings with unique
experiences and symbiotic relationships. Each company is different from
its competitors on every level. Without the experiential context that
surrounds and informs the numbers produced by analytics tools, many
companies have trouble unlocking the meaning in their mountains of data
to make fully intelligent decisions.

Intelligent decisioning requires more than data. It requires designing
intelligent information systems that couple the knowledge diffused
throughout the living, breathing organisms we call companies with the
hard data from information systems. Further, it entails interpreting
that data within its specific context by using the experience, emotions,
and instincts of the decision makers to produce a holistic picture of
organizational performance and develop strategies to improve on that
performance.

But how do we design those systems? How do we know what decision-makers
need? True to Ockham's Razor, the simplest answer is also the correct
one. We ask them, and we listen to their answers.

We learn from successful B2C companies who just "get" customer service
and apply those lessons in developing information systems for internal
customers (decision-makers and knowledge workers). We play in the long
tail, i.e., we look for opportunities and answers that many companies
may miss by simply looking at the mushy middle of processes and events.
Finally, we unleash innovation throughout the organization by looking
for people who are innovating at the departmental level---even if it
doesn't follow procedure---and piloting those innovations in other
departments and business areas.

In short, we let people tell us what they need to improve their
performance, and we give them the technology, along with the latitude to
use their experience and instinct, to go out and make those intelligent
decisions that spur innovation and grow the bottom line.
