---
title: Taming Analytics Risk
---

Analytics is a risky proposition. Deployment is complex, expensive, and
fraught with pitfalls that can doom any project. As such, the jobs of
many CAOs/CIOs are on the line with every analytics project undertaken.
The payoff has to outweigh the risk, and it's not always easy to
guarantee that. But what if you could reduce that risk? What if you
could go into any analytics implementation project knowing you were
doing it right?

Actually, you can. You just have to build an environment you've where
analytics is deployed with the right tools and architecture, with enough
flexibility and scalability, and using the right deployment model---to
meet your needs now, and as they change.

Don't Re-invent the Wheel
-------------------------

Everyone has their ideal version of analytics tools, languages, and
platforms. And, typically, if they can justify it, function heads often
get to deploy their own analytics systems without much regard to what's
best for the organization. This leads to analytics anarchy where
various, often overlapping, analytics capabilities are deployed across
multiple, siloed environments, and instead of leveraging what other
departments have done, teams build models and applications de-novo,
wasting time and resources. Out of this chaos comes very little except
for blurred insights and slow decision-making.

To make order out of the chaos, it's essential to operationalize
analytics. Make it a process that uses pre-built models and applies
those models consistently, across the organization. Also, consolidate
your analytics architecture. Realistically, probably 90% of analytics
tools can be deployed on one, comprehensive architecture that supports
the ingestion, storage, and analysis of multi-structured data. Make sure
you have support for your analysts' favorite R, Python, and SAS, etc.,
and tools such as RStudio, Jupyter, and SAS---but keeping them on the
same platform is a must to achieve consistent insights.

Deploy with Flexibility
-----------------------

Currently, you might be satisfied with having your data storage and
analytics capabilities fully on premise. But what if you want to port to
the cloud? What if you want to deploy a hybrid storage model? Could you
do that? Does your software and/or hardware vendor support such a move?
Does your architecture? If so, could you make the move quickly? If
you're like most companies, your answer has to be no.

It's critical, to meet market demands and to have the ability to find
and solve problems quickly, that you have the flexibility to store data
in any environment---on-premise, in the cloud, or in a hybrid
environment---and access it quickly for analysis. Pick a vendor with
portable licensing and deployment models that are essentially
environment agnostic and who will help you deploy in whatever
environment makes sense for your business, and who will help you port
your workloads, and analytics capabilities, as your requirements change.

Right-Size it and Make it Scalable
----------------------------------

Analytics is risky enough without having to bet the farm and pay for
everything up front, and with bundling options that make you pay for
capabilities you don't need, and might never need. And, many
companies---especially if their IT staffs aren't robust, find it
difficult to manage all that complex technology. Yet, despite the strain
this arrangement often causes on IT budgets, there aren't other options
that are presented by vendors hot to sell you on the latest analytics
wonder tools.

Don't buy it. Literally. Instead, find a vendor who'll work with you to
build a bundle of services that meets your needs, and that can be
reconfigured as those needs change. It's also critical to be honest
about your IT capabilities---and your risk tolerance---for managing your
analytics functionality. Give serious consideration to
subscription-based analytics and/or as-a-service analytics to get the
capabilities you need, when you need them---and the ability to scale up,
or down, quickly and seamlessly, when you need to.

What you Get
------------

Simply, you get less risk. How? The benefits are many, but let's examine
one very common scenario. Say you're on the cusp of introducing a new
product that you've spent millions in R&D on. It will potentially make
or break you. Fortunately, you've built an analytics infrastructure like
we've discussed.

Four weeks before production, your project manager says, "A deep
analysis of our test data has found a flaw that could lead to a
potential recall, but we can fix it *before* we go to market." After
your heart starts beating again, you realize you've dodged a bullet.
What if you'd gone to production? The cost would have been enormous,
both in hard dollars and reputational risk. However, with your analytics
capabilities in place, you've identified, and can fix, the problem
before it becomes a disaster. Now you can look forward to big sales and
a boost in your customer sentiment. That's a pretty big payoff.
