I spend a lot of time talking to clients who've failed. They've either
tried to implement a project that didn't go as planned, or they've made
the wrong choice of tools, technologies, people, or process. There are a
thousand possible reasons for failure. Some could have been foreseen and
avoided; some were awful surprises.

We all fail---if you haven't, you will. Failure is not the end of the
road; it's the beginning of a learning opportunity. If I sound like a
motivational speaker, I don't mean to. I'm being realistic. You don't
learn much from success; you learn from failure. And, the most important
lesson you should learn from failure is *how* to fail.

Failing properly sounds like an oxymoron. But really, failing
properly---especially when we're talking about IT projects---can open
that path forward and make the eventual outcome better than the original
outcome would have been if not for the failure. I call this phenomenon
failing forward. So how do you fail forward? I'm glad you asked.

Perform the Autopsy---With an Eye on the Future
-----------------------------------------------

It's only natural after you've declared defeat, to take a closer look at
what happened to precipitate it. For example, if you've implemented an
analytics initiative that's proven less than successful, you're going to
ask what went wrong. Was it not the right tool? Were people not trained
extensively enough to use it? Was the supporting architecture
insufficient?

Don't spend too much time, however, finding fault and laying blame.
Instead, focus on what you need to move forward. I know that sounds
trite and obvious, but you'd be surprised how many companies, after they
experience a failure, analyze the failure ad nauseum to the point where
they become paralyzed and unable to move forward. Don't do that. Use
every issue you find as an opportunity to learn and make your next
project better.

Focus on Delivering Value
-------------------------

One reason many IT initiatives---especially analytics initiatives---fail
is that they don't deliver sufficient value for the money spent. It's
that fuzzy cost-benefit concept from that managerial accounting class
you slept through. Unfortunately, that concept is very real and very
dangerous to those who fail to heed its dictum: whatever you build must
return more than you invested in it or you will fail.

To focus on delivering value going forward---and avoiding future
failure, it's key to answer three questions:

1.  Do we have a solid business case that can withstand the assault of X
    number of other projects competing for funding?

2.  Do we have the sponsorship who'll commit the appropriate support and
    resources to this project?

3.  Have the requirements been fully defined so that everyone is on the
    same page as to what needs to be done, and what the timeline is for
    completing the project?

Obviously, if the answer to all these is not a resounding yes, you need
to rethink the project. Maybe it's not right for your organization,
maybe it's just not the right time, or maybe you just need to work
harder---or smarter to turn the nos to yesses. If you learn anything
from a failure, learn this: without being able to deliver projects with
a perceived or actual value greater than their cost, you will keep
delivering failure, not value.

Quantify and Measure Success
----------------------------

Yes, we're talking about failure, and how to fail smarter, but in order
to keep from failing again---or at least so many times---you need to
understand what success looks like. Surprisingly, many companies don't
define success at the outset of a project, other than to declare that it
will provide the "answers" that everyone's been clamoring for.

That's not enough. What you must do, is, from the beginning, define what
success will look like, in quantifiable terms. Will your logistics costs
be reduced? By how much? Will your customer churn be reduced? By how
much? Will your cross-sell and up-sell revenues increase? By how much.
Of course, you can't deliver an exact number, but you can create a
target, aim for that target, and measure how close you get. Just make
sure that your targets are realistic, achievable, and scrupulously
communicated.

Fail Forward
------------

No one will escape failure---it happens to all of us at one time or
another. What we can do is learn from it and move forward, taking those
lessons and putting them into practice so that our next project is the
better for it.

I'd love to hear from you. You can
