**Moving Beyond Industry:\
Using Digital Twins to Understand and Predict Customer Behavior**

You probably don't manufacture aircraft engines, wind turbines, or any
other industrial product, so the concept of digital twins---creating a
virtual model of a physical asset to track and optimize its
performance---isn't on your radar, is it? Maybe it should be. Though
digital twin technology has wandered in the industrial hinterlands for
most of its existence, that's not so much the case anymore. Over the
past couple of years, innovative companies outside the manufacturing
sector have discovered the power of using digital twins to make better
decisions.

General Electric (GE) pioneered digital twinning by building complex and
remarkably accurate models of its aircraft engines. During the
manufacturing process, GE installed hundreds of monitors in each of
engines to capture data on metrics such as temperature, pressure, flow
rate, and many other variables that affect an engine's performance.

Data from all aircraft engines is linked and the chances of an engine
malfunction---down to the individual part that might fail, and
when---can be predicted. Digital twins can also help develop more
accurate and efficient maintenance schedules improve performance of
future versions of the engine.

GE started the digital twin revolution, but many other manufacturers of
everything from railcars to refrigerators hooked into the Internet of
Things (IoT) also use digital twin technology to improve performance and
build better products. What's more, digital twinning is moving out of
manufacturing into other sectors. A growing number of non-industrial
companies are harnessing the power of digital twin technology to better
model their customers, and improve performance and revenues.

For years, companies have used analytical models to perform predictive
and prescriptive analytics across customer segments. However, digital
twin technology takes modeling to a new level. It combines analytics
software with machine learning to create *individual* customer models.
For example, major insurance companies are using digital twin technology
to create discrete models of their policyholders. Yes, it's a one-off
model of each policyholder. That's a huge difference.

By using their own resident customer data, acquiring public data, and
purchasing data from brokers, companies can now aggregate millions of
data points about each of their customers and use that data to construct
a digital twin of *each* customer. Those models enable them to predict
individual customer behavior, as well as future performance and
revenues, with uncanny accuracy.

What's more, the models get more intelligent over time. As new pieces of
data come in, each digital twin synthesizes the data contextually and
"learns" more about its needs, spending patterns, life events,
preferences, and other habits that further enhance the capabilities of
the predictive model.

Again, this is not at the segment level; this is at the *individual*
level. This is almost as intimate as human knowledge. How well do you
know your wife or husband or kids? Well enough to use past behavior to
predict future behavior with near certainty. Digital twins deliver a
close doppelganger. The models you develop will have a tremendous payoff
in terms of efficiencies gained in crunching those millions of pieces of
data, making accurate predictions, and deciding on which products and
services to offer.

And, it's not just insurance companies that can build digital twins of
their customers. Any company---from financial services, to retailers, to
airlines, to healthcare systems, etc.---can use digital twinning to
model customer behavior. It's a matter of collecting enough customer
information and investing in the requisite analytics. However, as with
any machine-enabled venture, there are some caveats:

-   Humans are humans, not digital models. There will be times when the
    models' predictions are wrong and the humans they model won't make
    rational decisions. Learn from mistakes and remember that good
    old-fashioned customer knowledge and business experience still needs
    to be heeded.

-   Garbage in equals garbage out. The models are only as good as the
    data they crunch. The more data you have, the less a few pieces of
    inaccurate data will affect your models' analyses and decisions,
    but---as with any IT system---it's good to have the best data you
    can get.

-   Don't go cheap. Digital twins require lots of power and storage.
    This technology is large scale, writ large. The more (and better)
    processing power you have, and the more cloud storage you have, the
    more efficiently models will run and the more data they can crunch.

Digital twin technology isn't easy to implement, nor is it cheap. But if
it's done well, it's worth every ounce of brain (and machine) power, and
every penny you put into it. The technology affords you the capability
to accurately predict individual customer behavior and learn based on
experience, solve problems, test theories, and simulate the results of
decisions BEFORE you make mistakes at the customer level. That's a
win-win for everyone.
