Your business environment is more challenging than ever. Globalization
has led to increased operational complexity. New technology and
automation have increased fraud and compliance risk, at a time when
customers are demanding innovative new products and services, and
shareholders are demanding that companies unlock the greatest value from
all their physical, intellectual, and digital assets. There's no
break---no time to breathe before the next problem hits.

The challenges are exacerbated by fragmented analytics capabilities and
architectures. Decision-making is hobbled by poor insight into customer
behavior and operations. Innovation is stifled and customer satisfaction
plummets. Losses from compliance violations and fraud mount, and supply
chains become sluggish. This lethal mix leaves many companies foundering
and unable to satisfy anyone---shareholders, customers, or regulatory
agencies.

Achieving High-Impact Outcomes
------------------------------

To solve your problems, and gain the deeper insights to create the
high-impact, improved outcomes critical to thrive in today's digitally
transformed marketplace, you need three things: the right data, a
technical architecture design that stresses flexibility and scalability,
and the right environment to store your massive data workloads and
provide access when and where it's needed. Simple, right? No; but it is
doable.

### The Right Data

Customer demands to innovate and provide better, more personalized,
customer service---coupled with shareholder demands to increase share
value and speed their ROI---have created a critical need for companies
to better leverage data for decision-making. However, amidst the
inundation of big data, it's often difficult to tease out valuable data
from noise.

To get the data you need, you first have to \[popup url=\"
https://www.teradata.com/Consulting/Advise-Architect \" height=\"400\"
width=\"400\" scrollbars=\"yes\" alt=\"popup\"\]understand your business
needs\[/popup\]. What data do you need to drive value and create those
high-impact outcomes that will help you thrive? How can you use that
data to improve your business processes and customer service? How can
you use it to innovate? To avoid and mitigate risk? How can you use it
to drive operational excellence? To take optimize the value of your
assets? Ask these questions, and get the right framework to identify the
data you'll need. But one caveat: do it quickly, so that you can move on
to the next step: designing the architecture you need to leverage that
data.

### The Right Architecture

Once you've identified the data you need, it's crucial to ensure that
you have the \[popup url=\"
https://www.teradata.com/Teradata-Everywhere\" height=\"400\"
width=\"400\" scrollbars=\"yes\" alt=\"popup\"\]the right
architecture\[/popup\] to access it, store it, and manipulate it. That
architecture design should have three key components: it should have the
ability to accommodate multi-structured data; it should be flexible to
incorporate new technologies as they arise, and as your needs change;
and it should be scalable to grow as you do.

It's also imperative to be honest with yourself about where you are, and
where you can realistically go over multiple time horizons. Construct an
infrastructure and analytics maturity model. If your capabilities are
relatively immature, don't expect to have infused analytics and a genius
technical infrastructure in six months. Assess where you are, and where
you want to be in six months, a year, etc., then build an achievable
roadmap to get there. Remember, though---it's important to show value
quickly both from a competitive standpoint and to satisfy C-suite
demands and access the money you need to build your optimal state.

### The Right Environment

Most companies expend enormous human and capital resources each year
just to keep pace with the technological changes needed to meet data and
market demands. What's more, the pace of change is growing
exponentially, and many organizations struggle to keep up.

It doesn't have to be that way. More and more CIOs are taking advantage
of digitization and leveraging the transformative value of \[popup
url=\" https://www.teradata.com/products-and-services/intellicloud \"
height=\"400\" width=\"400\" scrollbars=\"yes\" alt=\"popup\"\]the
cloud\[/popup\]. By moving your analytics applications and technical
infrastructure to the cloud, you can gain a flexible, scalable platform
that helps you implement your desired technical architecture---now and
in the future---and achieve cost-effectiveness and certainty. When you
don't have to wrangle with applications and infrastructure management,
you free up resources to focus on proving the business value of your
efforts by achieving those high-impact outcomes that drive success.

Take the Leap
-------------

The pace of business change is faster than ever. Digitalization and
globalization are upending the market for all businesses. Those who keep
up will keep their competitive edge in a world where that edge is knife
thin. Those who don't will...well, you know.

I'd love to hear what you think. Please comment here, connect with me on
\<a href=\"https://www.linkedin.com/in/anujain/\"\>Linkedin \</a\>and
\<a href=\"https://twitter.com/dinojain\"\>Twitter\</a\>, or email me at
\<a
href=\"mailto:anuraag.jain\@teradata.com\"\>anuraag.jain\@teradata.com\</a\>.
