Taking Lessons from the ED. Driving Value in your Analytics Project
===================================================================

Information systems are useless if they don't deliver business value by
driving better decision making. There are countless articles out there
on how to deliver value, and most of them have merit. But most of them
also think inside the IT box. What if we think outside the box and look
at processes that are outside---and even totally unrelated to IT---to
learn lessons on how to build systems that deliver on their promise and
facilitate better decision making?

I have several friends who are physicians. A couple of them work in the
Emergency Department (ED) at a large urban hospital that often manages
mass casualty incidents (MCI). These docs are usually right in the
middle of these MCIs. I'm intensely curious about what they do, so I
question them about their jobs. You'd think that our jobs wouldn't
intersect, and in practice, they don't. However, after many
conversations, I've come to realize that a few of the techniques they
use to manage an MCI can also be applied---with a little
imagination---to building an analytics environment that will deliver on
its promise do deliver value to the business and help you make better
decisions.

Tag the issues
--------------

When an MCI happens, the ED goes into crisis mode. Every resource is
focused on delivering the best results to patients. Patients are
triaged, and tagged, according to the severity of their injuries. Red
tags indicate the most seriously injured patients---those near death.
Orange tags indicate those who are critical but not near death. Yellow
tags indicate injuries that are serious but not deadly unless left
untreated. You get the point.

You can do the same with issues that are forcing the need for your
analytics initiative. Those needs that must be immediately
fulfilled---those that are critical to the survival of the
business---are red tag issues. Make sure the analytics project team
addresses those first. They'll make or break you. Orange tag issues are
those that won't kill the business in the near term, but they're
serious, and if they're left unattended too long, profits will suffer,
and the business will eventually fail. Yellow tag issues are those that
affect the efficiency of the business and won't necessarily kill it, but
will siphon off profits and put you behind your competition.

Figuring out which problems fit which tags will help you design and
implement your analytics initiative in the most efficient, effective
way. It'll allow you to see which issues are most critical to the
business and solve those first, and then address the others as you're
able to. This will ensure that your most crucial needs are met and that
your system is designed to deliver value quickly.

Flow is everything
------------------

In the ED, flow is critical. Patients must be treated quickly and with
the most effective resources. Bottlenecks usually occur due to a lack of
resources---equipment, personnel, and time. There's a similarity with IT
projects. Issues must be addressed with the resources that can best
solve the problem. And, as in the ED, bottlenecks also occur due a
shortage of project resources, but they can also happen because of a
lack of support from the business.

Either type of bottleneck can quickly hobble---or kill---a project that
is vital to the business. It's critical from day one to anticipate the
resources you'll need---both technical and human---to ensure that you'll
have them in place when you need them. Don't just think of today. Think
about what you'll need as the business grows or changes, and plan for
how those resources will be acquired and integrated into the analytics
infrastructure in the future.

Lack of support from the business will kill your project. It's that
critical. To ensure business support, you'll need project team members
who can serve as liaisons to the business functions served by your
project. These liaisons must be fluent in both technical and business
speak. Analytics is still somewhat misunderstood by business people.
They understand it's very powerful, but they often don't understand how
difficult an analytics initiative is to implement and how much it relies
on input from the business. Bottom line: the business---and its
needs---must drive the project.

Keep your eyes on the goal
--------------------------

The goal of the ED is to save lives. So, everyone in the ED is totally
focused on that goal at all times. Your goal is to improve your
company's decision making using the best possible combination of tools
and technologies. There are scores of analytics products and services on
the market. Don't get fooled by all those blogs, articles, and
salespeople touting the features that you "absolutely" must have.

Keep your eyes on your goal. Let that goal be the determinant of what
you need---not the novelty of the technology that's available. Sure,
you'll probably need some of that new technology---like predictive and
prescriptive analytics tools on top of a data lake, but select your
tools based on what you need.

What's your take?
-----------------

I know that it may seem like a stretch to compare a hospital ED with an
IT project, but the similarities are there---although without the
criticality of life or death. What's your take? What else do you believe
is critical to delivering value with analytics?
