---
title: The Intelligent Cloud
---

According to [a recent IDG
survey](https://www.idg.com/tools-for-marketers/2016-idg-enterprise-cloud-computing-survey/),
about 70% of companies have at least one application in the cloud. An
additional 43% want to migrate most or all of their data
workloads---and, significantly, their analytics capabilities---to the
cloud over the next few years. To be sure, cloud adoption is growing due
to pressures---both internal and external---to increase agility and
responsiveness to market changes, shrink data center footprints, adapt
to changing analytics needs, and move IT costs from CapEx to OpEx.

However, cloud adoption plans are often hindered by concerns about
security and the lack of IT staff with experience to manage a cloud
environment. As a result, many companies struggle to identify the cloud
model that's right for their goals. One model that can help you meet
your goals, regardless of your size or resource capabilities, is
intelligent clouds as-a-service.

Intelligent clouds contain analytics and cloud storage, bundled as a
managed-services package---typically on a subscription basis---that can
be scaled up or down quickly, at will, depending on your needs. They
allow you to deploy the latest, and most sophisticated analytics
capabilities you need, combined with flexible, secure, cloud storage
that fits your workload size and operational requirements.

What you get
------------

With an intelligent cloud, your focus is shifted from wrangling your IT
infrastructure to leveraging sophisticated analytics capabilities and
large data sets so you can gain faster, deeper insights into your
business to improve performance and outcomes. How?

-   You get predictability, both in performance and cost. You pay only
    for the storage and analytics capabilities you need, and you can
    scale up or down quickly, depending on your everyday workloads, or
    any special projects that you might wish to undertake. This gives
    you resource efficiency and get more from your technology
    investments. It's an awesome capability to have when you're
    responding to ever-changing competitive and market conditions.

-   You get peace of mind. You don't have to worry about your data, or
    your analytics capabilities. If you have a DBA on staff, that person
    can manage the interaction between you and your cloud/analytics
    partner. Otherwise, the infrastructure management, and the analytics
    capabilities are taken care of---not to mention the security of your
    data and applications. The entire process is managed for you, to
    enable you to focus on your business, not your IT infrastructure.

-   You get availability. Because the process is managed for you, and
    it's infinitely, immediately scalable depending on your needs, your
    analytics and storage capabilities are there when you need them, as
    you need them. Most cloud/analytics vendors will guarantee
    performance in their SLAs. Can you do that by managing your own
    infrastructure? Probably not. Also, because your needs can change,
    and you need ultimate flexibility, most analytics/cloud vendors will
    offer options to go with public clouds like Amazon Web Services or
    Microsoft Azure, their own hosted clouds, or a hybrid thereof. It's
    the ultimate mix of scalability and flexibility.

It's clear that intelligent clouds as-a-service can help you maximize
your efficiency and focus on boosting your analytics outcomes, but there
are some things you need to look out for when choosing a vendor partner
to manage your intelligent cloud.

-   Performance guarantees. Best-in-class vendor partners will guarantee
    99.5%+ availability. That lessens the possibility of downtime for
    mission-critical applications and gives you the confidence to
    undertake large-scale projects with big workloads, without worrying
    about whether you can scale up or have access to your data and apps
    when you need it.

-   Security. The best vendors will offer sophisticated security with
    excellent encryption and monitoring capabilities. They shouldn't
    ever see or touch your data in the process. The SLA should clearly
    spell out security measures and guarantees to give you peace of mind
    as your workload migrates from your control to theirs.

-   Superior customer service and management. Subscription and pricing
    models should be flexible and customizable to match your needs---now
    and in the future. Top vendors will offer some sort of easy-to-use
    portal system where your DBA can perform tasks such as scaling up or
    down, viewing metrics, starting and stopping the database,
    scheduling backups, and setting firewall and security parameters.
    Your SLA should also offer 24/7 customer service, or at least
    24-hour service during the work week.

There are almost infinite cloud service models out there, and it's
crucial to your success in producing better analytics outcomes to choose
the right one for your business. Intelligent clouds, with their
flexibility and performance, can be that right choice for any business,
large or small.
