What is it?
===========

I wrote last week about designing intelligent analytics systems using
the process of design thinking. This week, we're going to delve more
deeply into just what design thinking is how it's implemented using a
phased approach that puts people at the center of systems design.

First, some housekeeping. There are many definitions of design thinking
floating around, and I'm not the judge of whose is correct and whose is
not. For my purposes, I define designing as it applies to analytics. So,
within the analytics sphere, design thinking is the iterative process of
combining user experience and context with the right technology to
create dynamic analytics ecosystems. These ecosystems can help companies
solve complex problems in an atmosphere where the variables are often
unknown and always changing.

Using design thinking principles, companies can look in the small
spaces, where innovation happens, and gain insights from the edges of
the information environment. They can use that information to generate
ideas, ask new questions, and quickly prototype and implement innovative
analytics solutions.

The first step is to think like a designer. The idea is to innovate---to
find a solution, not just list problems to overcome. Obviously, you're
trying to solve a problem, or you wouldn't be building an analytics
system in the first place, but the idea here is to focus on the
solution, not just fixes to overcome discrete issues.

For example, the *problem* might be that management doesn't have the
insight they need into the supply chain. That's thinking about what you
don't have. If you think that way, you're likely to think only about
ways to solve that specific problem. However, if you think innovatively,
and listen to your customers---in this case your management and
knowledge workers, you'll arrive at a solution.

For example, the solution might be to build a cloud-based,
cognitive-enabled, interconnected supply network that gives you the
insight you need to foresee problems and take advantage of
opportunities. It's a shift in perspective that can make a world of
difference in how you approach your initiative.

In building your innovative solution, it's critical to open the design
process to create an ideation environment where all ideas are explored
and valued. Find the good in every idea and combine ideas in novel ways.
Again, you can't simply envision from a problem viewpoint. Visualize
SOLUTIONS.

Take the best ideas that are generated and model those. Create working
prototypes and evaluate their performance against requirements. When
evaluating prototypes, set yourself up to fail quickly. That's not to
say you *want* to fail, but have an iterative process in place that lets
you continually ask: should we use this model, or just move on?

The best solution will be the one(s) that hits the sweet spot between
innovation and practicality. In making the choice, use criteria that can
be both quantified and qualified. Rely on the experience and intuition
of decision-makers and knowledge workers to make the best choice.

Don't trade the most effective solution for pennies. Cost matters, but
it shouldn't be the final arbiter of which solution is chosen. Within
established constraints, use the most, and the best, resources available
to execute the chosen solution. Execute as quickly and effectively as
possible to realize results in the quickest timeframe.

Take solutions that are working on a smaller scale and push those
innovations through to the entire organization. As solutions scale up
from small to enterprise-wide, Design Thinking companies tweak them to
maximize the effectiveness at scale.

So now that we've explored what design thinking is and roughly how to go
about it, next week we'll talk about why you should use it, i.e., what
it can do for you and how the solutions your generate can be truly
innovative.
