Last week we talked about some of the benefits of building a digital
supply network (DSN), as well as some of the challenges that companies
face when shifting from traditional supply chain operations to DSNs.
This week, we're going look at what has made the rise of DSNs possible
over the past couple of decades, then we'll look at a real-world
scenario that illustrates the concrete benefits of a DSN.

I'm not going to go into an exhaustive discussion of the history of IT;
it's not my bailiwick, and you don't want to hear it. What I will say,
however, is that there are [three converging
trends](http://www.visualcapitalist.com/visualizing-trillion-fold-increase-computing-power/)
that have given rise to DSNs, and digitization in general: a reduction
in computing costs, an increase in bandwidth and speed, and an explosion
in data---both in volume and variety.

As big data overtook traditional data structures, companies realized
that if they could find a way to harness it, they could enhance their
knowledge and collaboration capabilities to not just enhance their
traditional supply chains, but to create entirely new, digitized,
interconnected supply networks.

Early adopters created proto-DSNs as far back as 2001. Now true DSNs are
is becoming widespread, with fully 90% of manufacturers either
implementing or considering a DSN. The results have been phenomenal for
those companies who've made the leap to digitization. Companies that
create DSNs are faster, smarter, and more flexible than ever---and both
they and their end customers reap the benefits.

As an example, let's take the case of a consumer products manufacturer
that was facing serious, existential challenges with quality and costs.
This manufacturer was under increased regulatory scrutiny because they'd
had to issue several safety recalls over a five-year span. Their
products tended to either not function correctly or, in some cases, to
spontaneously ignite. Not a good look.

Because of lack of supply chain integration, they were forced into a
reactive mode to solve problems. It took them too long to identify
issues and to fix the problems, and they couldn't track how effective
their fixes were in the long term. Their warranty expenses were
astronomical, and their reputation was sinking fast.

Their solution was to [create a
DSN](http://apps.teradata.com/tdmo/v08n03/Features/CoverStory/SupplyChain.aspx).
They built a technical infrastructure than enabled them to use
cutting-edge technologies like embedded sensors on parts to capture
real-time performance data. They also integrated data from all their
suppliers to form a complete picture of their parts' chain of custody.
This data was coupled with textual quality and safety event data and
stored in a data lake to facilitate quick retrieval and integration.

Next, they used advanced analytics tools such as probability analysis
and clustering to explore their data. They used a simplified GUI and
dashboards to enable users to see the data they needed, when they needed
it---to quickly deliver actionable insights.

The result? To be sure, they were able to catch production problems more
quickly, but the real bonus was that they were able to integrate their
supply network and leverage big data and advanced analytics to improve
quality and prevent those problems in the first place. They had insight
into every facet of their production process to ensure that every step
in that process was tracked, monitored, and tweaked to deliver peak
performance.

Everyone, from suppliers, to logistics partners, to each production
facility, had access to the same data set and could identify issues
before they became explosive problems. The company's warranty expense
decreased over time as quality increased, the government regulators
eased off, and their reputation was salvaged---creating an environment
where they could increase top line revenue and long-term growth.

Will your DSN implementation turn out this well? There's no guarantee,
but I will promise you that your competition is thinking about
digitizing. And if they do, and you don't they'll have the ability to
gain those insights that you won't. Where will that leave you?

I'd love to hear what you think. Please comment here, connect with me on
[Linkedin](https://www.linkedin.com/in/anujain/) and
[Twitter](https://twitter.com/dinojain), or email me at
<anuraag.jain@teradata.com>.
