**Separating the Signal from the Noise**

Say I gave you a hammer, some nails, a mitre saw, and a tape measure and
said, "Go build it and make the most use out of it" and then sat back
and waited for your response. You'd probably look at me expectantly,
waiting for me to finish. But what if I were finished? What if there
were no more instructions? You'd have a lot of questions, wouldn't you,
and you probably wouldn't get very far if you decided to go and build
whatever it was you thought I was talking about---or if you did, it most
likely wouldn't be what I wanted.

This example is exaggerated, but essentially, it's the kind of demented
dance that a lot of companies go through when they build analytics
systems. They acquire analytics technology without an adequate
understanding of their information needs and without having realistic
expectations in about the benefits the system will be expected to
return.

When companies pursue analytics initiatives, they're typically looking
for one thing: better information to improve decision-making
capabilities. What many don't realize is that they already have a wealth
of information. What they need is the ability to parse that
information---to sort out what they need from what they don't---to
determine what *new* information they need. They need the ability to
separate the signals from the noise.

The purpose of analytics is not simply to collect information. It is to
get the information needed to understand which problems need to be
solved and to understand what decisions that must be made to achieve the
solutions. That information might not reside in your information
systems, and it might have to be augmented with new information, but the
bones of intelligent decision-making are typically there---resident in
the experience, gut instincts, and inside industry knowledge of your
decision makers.

Still, many organizations struggle to understand what information they
need to augment what they have. They struggle to ask the right
questions. The thinking often goes, "If I only knew what questions to
ask, I'd know what information I needed." That's true, but no one is
going to tell you the questions. No one can.

Your business is unique, as are the questions you need to ask and
answer. However, you can use your experience, and the knowledge of your
environment, to develop those questions, and determine what decisions
you need to make. The process requires you to go outside the box, to
think big and believe that there's nothing that is unknowable. It goes
something like this:

1.  If I understood:

2.  I could:

3.  To achieve:

There is already so much knowledge resident in your organization. Good
analytics is about using the information you have to ask the right
questions about your business, so that you can use your analytics tools
to gather additional information you need, and determine what decisions
you need to make to meet your goals. It's about helping you understand
what information is relevant---a good signal that bears listening to and
acting on---and what is merely noise that you should ignore.

a.  Analogy of college and foreknowledge of questions on the exam

    i.  Learn the principles of the system (the business environment)

    ii. Systematically go through the problem and determine what
        information you have, what you need, and what you don't

    iii. Ask the questions you need to solve the problem. How do you
        recognize what you need?

        1.  Look at the hard numbers

        2.  Then apply the experience, gut instinct, and industry
            knowledge to understand the missing pieces you need to solve
            the problem

Bottom line: If you know which questions to ask, you can use your
analytics, coupled with the 'thick' data in your organization---the
experience, gut instinct, and inside industry knowledge---to understand
what decisions you need to make, and what additional information you
need to make those decisions. You can separate the signal from the
noise.
