I frequently have discussions with colleagues and clients about the
promise of the cloud, and whether we'll ever fully realize it. The
number one benefit of cloud conversions is supposed to be that you turn
over your data architecture and management to a cloud vendor partner,
thus freeing you to focus on deriving business value from your data
rather than managing your technical architecture and constantly
reconfiguring it---and its analytics applications---as you grow or as
your needs change.

However, many companies find that the potential of the cloud doesn't
often match the reality. Few companies that migrate their workloads to
the cloud have IT personnel versed in cloud technology, and thus have to
rely on vendor partners that don't understand business or data needs
enough to provide an optimal solution. As a result, even though they
realize the enormous potential of the cloud to free up resources to
focus on improved outcomes, many CIOs are still hesitant to fully
embrace the cloud.

### Fulfilling the Promise of the Cloud

It doesn't have to be that way. There are five areas of concern to
discuss with any potential cloud-services vendor to ensure that you're
getting the right cloud-services for your organization. If you choose
the right vendor partner, you can realize the enormous transformative
value of the cloud and embrace the digital revolution to accelerate your
outcomes and increase topline revenue.

#### Seamless Data Workload Migration and Account Management

As an inviolable rule, migrating data workloads to the cloud should
cause only minimal---or preferably no---business disruptions. It's
critical to choose a vendor partner with a tool set that enables
automated and seamless migration to minimize downtime. Utilization
monitoring should also be straightforward, preferably via a single
console that automates as many management and monitoring functions as
possible.

#### Flexible Deployment Options

Whether it's your vendor's private cloud---such as Teradata's
Intellicloud™---or public clouds such as Amazon Web Services™ (AWS),
Microsoft Azure™, or any other cloud services provider, your deployment
options should be flexible, and the vendor you choose should give you
the option to deploy in a single environment, or over a combination of
hybrid environments in case you don't want to move all your data to the
cloud. One caveat, though. Mission-critical systems, such as data
warehouses, should be deployed in a single environment to ensure
consistency of data access.

#### Data and Systems Availability

If your information systems go down, you're dead in the water.
Historically, one argument for not moving enterprise workloads to the
cloud has been data and application availability concerns. However,
there are vendors out there that will guarantee near 100% availability
in their SLA. Speed is an issue too. Access speeds should be as if the
data is on-premise---or faster. Things happen, and nothing is 100%
perfect. But if you choose the right vendor, they'll spell out their
availability speed and guarantee it, so data and application
availability won't be a concern.

#### Flexibility and Scalability

Business, and thus data, needs change---both as you grow and as the
market changes. It's a fact of life. Your cloud vendor's suite of
offerings should be built around helping you embrace change and growth.
Some cloud providers only offer storage and management, which is fine if
you already have a robust analytics structure. However, there are
vendors that provide both flexible data storage and analytics and
database software as a service---which effectively offers you a
smorgasbord of options to scale up, or change configurations and
applications as your needs change, without having to invest in new
analytics applications when yours no longer fit your needs.

#### Security

Perhaps the greatest concern for CIOs looking to move their data to the
cloud is security. It should be your vendor partner's number one concern
as well. Make sure that your vendor's security infrastructure covers the
entire spectrum of security needs, including physical security, network
security, data protection, monitoring, and access controls. Their
security protocols must support secure connections for data
transmission. Data should be encrypted, both during transfer, and at
rest through self-encrypting drives on a dedicated infrastructure.
