Let's talk about clouds and analytics. I know there are thousands of
blog posts and articles written how you can use the power of the cloud
to boost your analytics, and the best deployment models out there. Most
of them I read, though, use really technical language and don't really
settle on a bottom line.

There are many definitions of cloud: on-premises, public, private,
hybrid---with ever-changing variations on each of those terms, according
to the particular cloud service provider. How can you know what's best
for you? It's simple. What's right for you is the configuration that
lets you worry the least, while getting the best business outcomes.

### What's Out There

On-premises clouds offer the ultimate in security and control. You have
to provide the footprint, the physical hardware, security, and IT
resources to manage the entire infrastructure. With public clouds, you
don't have to provide the hardware, but you still have to provide
resources to manage the process, and there's the issue of sharing space
and possible outages.

Private clouds are dedicated to you, but they're hosted on a cloud
provider's infrastructure. However, you still have to have a cadre of
resources to interact with the cloud provider and manage the process
overall. Private clouds are secure, to be sure, but they're also
limiting in that you still need time and planning to ramp up or down.

Managed cloud models are those in which resources at a cloud service
provider fully manage your cloud environment and analytics
infrastructure. The cloud utilized can either be public or private, or a
combination thereof. Managed clouds are great for those companies that
don't have the resources to implement or manage the large data sets and
the concomitant infrastructure it takes to perform deep, complex
analytics.

Hybrid clouds offer the ultimate combination of all the types I've
discussed above. With a hybrid model, you can combine managed or
self-controlled, on-premises, private, and public cloud deployments in
any combination, depending on your needs. You can orchestrate them to
work together to meet on-demand data and analytics requirements. This
creates a borderless environment that enables you to focus on your
analytics without having to worry about where the data you're accessing
resides. You can ramp up or down at will, with minimal or no
disruptions. The resources needed on your part are minimal, but more
than with managed clouds.

### Getting the Right Cloud for Your Business

This sounds simplistic, but the right cloud configuration for you is the
one that helps you meet your needs. Not those of your cloud provider,
your competition, or anyone else. However, there are certain
requirements that any cloud deployment should meet. These are not so
much technical requirements as business outcomes---and they should be
met regardless of which configuration you choose.

-   Deployment flexibility. Users should have access to the data and
    analytics capabilities they need, when they need it, and IT resource
    requirements should fit your level of expertise and desire.

-   Workload optimization. Whatever the size of your data set, the cloud
    infrastructure and management plan you choose should optimize the
    storage of, and access to, that data. Access should be seamless and
    transparent to users. In other words, data access should be
    lightning quick, and users shouldn't notice a difference in
    accessing data, based on where that data resides.

-   Customization based on needs. You need to have the level of control
    that your resources permit, or that your security needs require. If
    you want complete control of the infrastructure, security, and
    management, your choice will be different than that of a company
    that wants to focus solely on utilization for analytics and is
    willing to cede control to the cloud provider. Don't let anyone tell
    you what you need. You drive the process.

-   The right investment model. Your desire for control and resource
    allocation will also determine your investment model. If you want to
    focus solely on analyzing your data, the cloud-as-a service model is
    right for you. If you don't want to cede control at all, the
    on-premise or private cloud is the way to go. If you want
    flexibility, a hybrid model is your choice. It's your choice, not
    the vendor's.

The bottom line is this: the right choice for you is the one that will
best achieve your desired business outcomes, and that's within your
human and monetary resource budget. That's all that matters. Don't let
anyone tell you otherwise.
