---
title: '2023---The New Intelligent Enterprise'
---

In last week's blog, I outlined what I thought future companies would
look like vis-Ã -vis their information technology and decision-making
capabilities. I believe they'll be intelligent, connected, and agile.
Over the next several weeks, I'm going to dive deeper into how I think
companies will realize their futures. And, as I've said, that future is
not truly five years from now. It *is* now.

This week I'm going to explore how smart companies will leverage new
technologies to become more intelligent. I'll use the manufacturing
sector as a prism for looking at how intelligence will differentiate
companies from their competitors and enable them to thrive in a global,
competitive network that leaves little margin for error.

On a good day in a production facility, things go smoothly. Everything
functions as it should: parts roll in, products roll out, and production
managers can breathe a sigh of relief at the end of the day. Good days
don't breed successful companies; they breed complacent ones. True
success is bred by how well you deal with the bad days---and solve the
problems that created them.

It happens to every company. Machines go down, diagnosis and repairs
take critical, revenue-eating time. If the parts are local, the repair
is quicker, but if they're sourced nationally or globally, the company
could be looking at loss runs in the millions of dollars. That's for one
production facility.

Most large companies don't just have one plant; they have several---and
those are typically located globally, exacerbating problems.
Connectivity between plants is often spotty, and each plant typically
comes up with its own solution to problems. Data is collected and
created, but so are silos. Intelligence and insight become scarce
commodities.

Going forward, successful companies will reimagine their future and
deploy analytics augmented with artificial intelligence (AI) across
their entire value chain. Why AI? Because machines can be trained to
learn, to recognize patterns and trends, to spot changes and exceptions,
and suggest alternatives that may not be apparent to humans. Humans can
then be presented with deep, relevant data they need to inform their
decision-making process.

But there's another benefit. When companies use AI to create intelligent
analytics and gain better decision-making at one node in the value
chain, those results can be applied across the entire production and
logistics network to make the company smarter and more responsive. More
than that, companies can predict problems---and head them off---before
they happen.

As an example, let's look at a global energy producer. The company might
have thousands of wells and production facilities in 20 countries. What
happens when a well breaks down, when three, or five, or ten wells break
down simultaneously? Millions in revenue per day could potentially be
lost.

However, using AI, the company can install sensors on their equipment to
analyze performance across their production network and predict
maintenance failures and repair needs. Downtime can be planned.
Decision-makers can schedule production re-routes and revenue losses can
be reduced or eliminated.

This example is only one instance where intelligent analytics can be
used to control production networks and make smarter, faster decisions.
Other uses include:

-   Critical component tracking

-   Delivery variability analysis

-   Predictive maintenance

-   Product and process efficiency and quality analysis

-   Safety improvement

-   Supplier quality analysis

Intelligent analytics will revolutionize how companies handle their data
and operations. However, there's a caveat. Intelligent analytics
capabilities must be deployed in weeks, not months. The analytics
companies deploy must combine the rich insights of analytics with the
promise of data science to generate proof-of-concept models that can
show improvements quickly and be propagated throughout the enterprise
and generate quick, measurable ROI.

The bottom line here is about the impact to your business outcomes.
Intelligent analytics can help you become smarter, faster, and more
responsive. It can help you understand not only what's happening, but
why it's happening---and most critically---what might happen in the
future so that you can begin to control that future and make it work for
you, not against you, so that you can differentiate yourself from your
competitors and own the market.
