**Embedding Analytics in your Operations---Part One**

In 2015, Gartner reported that only 15% of analytics projects ever make
it out of the pilot state to enterprise deployment. That's a lot of
wasted time, effort, and money. It doesn't have to be that way. Over the
course of my career, I've spoken with many experts and C-suite people
about why analytics initiatives fail. There are thousands of stated
reasons, but, really, it all comes down to one root cause: the analytics
initiative was treated as a project, as something the organization was,
"doing," not something the organization was, "becoming."

Businesses have been playing with some sort of analytics capabilities
for over 25 years now. Over that time, tool suites and methodologies
have come and gone. Innumerable analytics theories have been offered and
rejected. But one thing has stayed the same. To truly be successful with
an analytics initiative, analytics must be imbedded, at the operational
level, throughout the enterprise. You must become an analytics
organization.

Indeed, analytics' value to the business can only be realized when
analytics tools are running within existing production systems, and
embedded in existing, or improved, business processes. These processes
must function within your normal business operations and within the
business's strategic framework and support the goals of the business. It
sounds simple to say---and we've been saying it for 25 years---but it's
absolutely true. There can be no successful analytics initiative that is
not intricately imbedded---not just tied to---but imbedded within the
DNA of your company. It just isn't possible.

This "Analytics Ops" philosophy rests at the intersection of your
company's data science, data engineering, and process engineering
efforts. It's also not a one-size-fit's all methodology. Instead, it's a
mind-set. It's not about what tools to use and what principles and
practices to follow. It's about deploying analytics that fit your
particular business needs, and using a deployment process that enables
you to thing big, start smart, and scale fast.

Analytics Ops, and embedding analytics throughout the enterprise,
requires a holistic approach to the project. It starts with determining
the scope of your project. Understand what problems you have, and which
of those are most cost-effective to solve with the pilot. These are
within your initial scope. The project can scale by adding to the scope,
but NOT before demonstrating success in solving those problems that lie
within the initial scope. Do not---repeat---do not scale up before you
demonstrate success. You will become one of the 85% of pilot failures.

It's also critical to precisely define the outcomes of your analytics
initiative. A wise sage once told me, "You can't build a road 'til you
know where you're going." It was true 20 years ago, and it's true today.
At its core Analytics Ops is outcomes driven. Success is measured by how
well the initiative meets your goals. I know this sounds self-evident,
but it's always amazed me that many companies tend to focus on analytics
tools, and their capabilities, rather than how those capabilities will
actually help them achieve their analytics goals. Tools are not the
objective; outcomes are.

Your outcomes should be targeted to the problems you have, they should
be quantitatively measurable, and they should inform your
decision-making at every point in the process AND shape the processes
you embed your analytics capabilities in. Tools should only be
facilitators in achieving your desired outcomes. They are a means to an
end.

Finally, it's crucial to involve stakeholders from across your
organization to participate in, and champion, the project. Don't just
bring them in for window dressing. Listen to them and value their
opinion. They're on the frontlines, and they know what they need to do
their jobs. They'll play a large part in determining the success or
failure of your project.

I've only scratched the surface here. Over the coming weeks, I'll be
discussing specific tools and methods you can use to ensure that
analytics is embedded within your enterprise---both technically and
culturally. We'll discuss what it means to marry analytics tools with
back-end IT and business processes, accelerators you can use to both
speed up deployment and ensure success, and a framework you can employ
to integrate analytics into your corporate DNA. Stay tuned!
