---
title: A Holistic Approach to Margin Improvement
---

It goes without saying that analytics can be used to help you understand
and improve any area of your business. One popular use of analytics is
to find cost reduction and restructuring opportunities to gain
efficiencies and improve operating and profit margins across the
enterprise.

Historically, margin improvement efforts have been implemented at the
functional level, often in a linear process, usually beginning with
logistics and ending with cost-center functions such as HR and finance.
To be sure, if you look hard enough, you'll find ways to cut costs to
bolster your margins, but what if you could do better? What if you could
look at your margin improvement effort at the enterprise level and
understand which dynamics affect your margins and how they work
together---or against each other?

Margin Movement Dynamics
------------------------

Typically, there are three broad dynamics that affect or "move" the
margins for any business:

-   How you spend your money

-   How you organize your staff

-   How you produce and move your product

These margin dynamics don't play out in a vacuum. The processes they
generate often overlap, yet many companies look at each area in a
siloed, linear approach, milking meager reductions out of each before
moving onto the other.

Gaining a 360-Degree View
-------------------------

There's a better approach: one that is holistic and considers the three
dynamics that move your margins *simultaneously*. Think of these margin
dynamics as a set of gears whose motion is intertwined and, in some
cases, interdependent. A holistic approach to margin improvement uses
analytics to examine activities within each of these dynamics and
determine which of them---together or apart---are affecting your margins
and how.

### Analyzing Spend

Artificial intelligence capabilities---specifically machine
learning---can help enormously here, especially when they're coupled
with predictive and prescriptive analytics tools. What you want is a
tool set that looks at spend data (both structured and unstructured)
across your business, classifies it, and "learns" from past transactions
to provide you with current insight into where your money is going,
predictive insight into where it might go if you continue your current
course, and prescriptive insights about where it should go to realize
margin improvement objectives.

### Analyzing Staffing

The way you organize your staff---both line and management
personnel---plays a large part in determining how well you manage your
margins. If you're too bloated or have too many management layers,
that's a ding on overhead that you really can't afford if you want to
improve those margins. Analytics can help here too, especially if you
build a sandbox in which you can play with different staffing and
management models---at the enterprise level. What you should look for
are predictive and prescriptive analytics tools you can use to model
different staffing scenarios and gain insight into which of those are
most efficient in terms of cost, workflow, and strategic goal
realization.

### Analyzing Production and Logistics

Sourcing and logistics management is critical to margin improvement.
However, because of the complexity of global supply chains, streamlining
operations is often an elusive goal. What you should look for are
cognitive-enabled tools that help you analyze global sources and
optimize your sourcing chain. The tools you choose should provide you
with insight into your entire sourcing, production, and logistics path.
They should enable you to create models that help you optimize your
entire sourcing, production, and logistics process. The tools should
also help you predict when and where problems will occur and prescribe
strategies to solve them---before they become costly realities that drag
on your margins.

Putting it Together
-------------------

Let's recap, because this is critical: before you buy analytics tools of
any type to help improve your margins, it's fundamental to understand
the foundational requirement: the approach you take to using analytics
must enable you to look at all the dynamics that affect your margins
simultaneously, and across your organization, i.e., they must enable a
holistic approach to margin improvement. This holistic approach must
help you delve deeply into each of the of the three dynamics we've
discussed here. It will also help you choose which margin improvement
initiatives to prioritize, understand how those initiatives will impact
the organization as a whole, and provide you with options that will
result in long-term improvement, not just short-term gains.
