---
title: '2023---The Company of the Future'
---

Technological change is happening at a rapid pace, no more so than in
information technology. In the past decade, the deluge of big data has
wrought a vast transformation of the IT landscape. Predictive analytics
has become common-place. New technologies such as artificial
intelligence (AI) promise to change the way we approach analytics and
decision-making. Additionally, the pressure the gain efficiencies,
connect more intimately with suppliers and customers, and increase top
and bottom line revenue to maximize shareholder value has made it
imperative to respond more quickly to market changes.

So how will companies deal with these pressures? The ones who
thrive---not just survive---in the future will have three
characteristics: intelligence, connectedness, and agility.

They will be intelligent
------------------------

Over the past 25 years, business intelligence and analytics technologies
have revolutionized business decision-making. However, it's not enough
anymore to simply buy BI or analytics tools, load your data, slice and
dice it, and interpret the results. Big data has made traditional tools
almost obsolete---especially for large, complex, or multi-national
companies. In five years, the analytics technologies in play will have
undergone a profound change, and that change is already underway.

Artificial intelligence is the future of analytics. Retailers are
already adopting AI technologies for deep learning to manage customer
interactions and increase customer satisfaction. In fact, Garner
predicts that by 2020, 85% of all customer interactions will be managed
by AI technologies.

AI-augmented analytics can be applied to nearly every industry and
sector. For example, financial institutions can use it for fraud
detection, portfolio optimization, and customer service. Agricultural
concerns can use AI to improve research on farming methods, manage crop
yields, minimize the use of pesticides, and manage livestock. In
healthcare, AI can help doctors diagnose diseases faster and more
accurately, help researchers find cures for those diseases, and it can
help health systems manage costs and patient populations more
effectively while providing optimized care.

They will be connected
----------------------

The supply chain is dying. It's being replaced by perpetually-connected,
digital supply networks (DSN). A DSN is an ecosystem where information
flows to and from who and where it's needed, when it's needed, to
maximize efficiency throughout the network. Information latency is no
longer an issue, because on-demand, near real-time information flow
creates almost instantaneous insights that are accessible to all
interested and authorized parties.

On a macro level, increased information flow speed provides the insights
needed to develop more effective business strategies, which leads to
more business opportunities and helps create new strategic advantages.

The benefits of these freed-up, on-demand information flows are
enormous. More timely information can help reduce costs by improving
efficiency. The back-and-forth data flows can also help companies gain
the information they need to make product improvements more quickly,
which results in more satisfied customers. More satisfied customers lead
to a better reputation, and with that reputation and better information
in the hands of management and salespeople, sales effectiveness---and
revenues---can soar.

They will be agile
------------------

To be sure, AI and DSNs can enable companies to become more agile by
gaining the ability to better understand and interpret their environment
and become more responsive to market needs. However, the foundation of
this agility is the technical infrastructure that supports all these
dynamic technologies. If that infrastructure is not cutting-edge, it
can't support innovative technologies. That cutting-edge infrastructure
is the cloud.

But not just any cloud. There are many cloud options: public, private,
hybrid, and on-premise. However, in the near future, companies that
thrive will gain the ultimate flexibility by combining their analytics
and cloud technologies into an intelligent cloud, so that their
analytics aren't simply supported by the cloud---they're integrated with
it.

Intelligent clouds contain analytics capabilities and cloud storage,
bundled as a managed-services package---on a subscription basis---that
can be scaled up or down quickly, at will, depending on your needs. They
allow you to deploy the latest, and most sophisticated analytics
capabilities, combined with flexible, secure, cloud storage that fits
your workload size and operational requirements.

With an intelligent cloud, you get three things:

1.  Predictability. Your resources are there when you need them.

2.  Peace of mind. Security and management are taken care of for you.

3.  Flexibility. Scale up or down as needed to meet demand quickly.

I titled this blog, "The Company of the Future," but in reality, that
future is now. All these technologies are available today, and
forward-thinking companies are implementing them. I believe that in five
years, companies that haven't implemented these technologies---at least
to some degree---will be short-changing their future and may end up with
a bleak one.
