If your company is like most mid-to-large size companies today, your
analytics spend is high and climbing. The pressure to keep up with the
newest technologies is almost crushing, especially in the face of
abundant data showing that companies with mature analytics technology
outperform their competitors. There's an analytics arms race out there,
and it often seems as if there's no end in sight until every last dollar
is spent.

Do you need to participate in the arms race? Yes and no. To be sure, you
need sophisticated, mature analytics capabilities, but you don't need
every new analytics toy that comes on the market. Instead, you need to
right-size your analytics capabilities now, and for the future.

### Analytics Maturity

To get the right analytics program for your company, first you need to
figure out where you are. Do you still perform analytics via
spreadsheets? You'd be surprised at how many companies do. Many have
climbed the maturity ladder a bit and begun to integrate their data
sources and give decision-makers some data visualization capabilities.
They can get hindsight, and some rudimentary insight, but their
capabilities could be more robust.

Increasingly, forward-thinking companies are making the shift to
implement predictive capabilities and advanced visualization
technologies with real-time dashboards so management can keep its hand
on the pulse of the business and achieve real insight into what's
happening. They're moving to eliminate data silos and analyze
multi-structured data to get a more holistic picture of their
operations.

Cutting-edge companies go further, however. They've realized the power
of analytics to help them leap-frog their competition. These companies
have adopted an analytics mindset where analytics, not gut feel and
experience, drive decision-making. They're investing in technologies
that give them the speed and flexibility to make decisions more quickly
than their competition does. This is where you want to be.

### Growing Up

But how do you get there? What do you need to grow up analytically? It
starts with defining what you want. It sounds simple, but it's not. It
requires a 360-degree look at your business---where you are, what you
want now, and what you'll need in the future. Define those outcomes that
will have the highest impact on your future. Align your analytics goals
to achieving those outcomes.

Next, define the low-hanging fruit. What can you implement quickly and
cost-effectively to achieve some of those outcomes? Pick one high-impact
area and implement a pilot or proof-of-concept that will show quick
value and return.

Identify the data sources you'll need---both for the pilot and for the
future, to the extent possible. Think ahead as much as you can. It's
critical to think outside the database box and include multi-structured
data that covers the customer and supplier touchpoints that show you a
clear picture of how you're operating and what your customers are saying
and doing.

Once your data is set, define which analytics capabilities you need to
implement the pilot---with an eye toward what you'll need in the future.
You'll need advanced visualization and dashboard capabilities, as well
as predictive and prescriptive modeling tools.

Leverage a cloud-based platform to get fast, reliable service and free
up your own IT resources to focus on producing the analysis that will
achieve your high-impact outcomes, rather than managing a byzantine IT
infrastructure.

However, what you need most to grow up analytically is a shift in your
mindset. Experience is nice, but as they say in those ubiquitous lawyer
ads, past experience does not predict future performance. Data does.
What you did last year is relevant, but you need to couple it with how
you're performing now, and with sophisticated modeling techniques that
enable you to predict the future, AND that will tell you what your next
moves should be to achieve your goals.

In short, you need to morph into a data-driven organization. Rely on
those high-tech tools you purchased and trust their output. If your
input is right---meaning that if you've fed the analysis tools with
clean, reliable data---they should do their jobs. Thus, data should
drive every decision you make. If the numbers aren't there, don't pull
the trigger, or pull a different one.

### Just do it

Achieving analytics maturity won't happen overnight, but you can do it.
Scope it; pilot it; get the data; get the tools; and develop the
mindset. Pick a good technology partner and make the investment. You
won't regret it.
