---
title: 'Disaster Proofing Your Supply Network (Almost)'
---

Imaging having to shut down the production line of your most
popular---and profitable\--product because of a disastrous fire at one
of your crucial suppliers. Such a scenario has the potential to be
catastrophic, simply because of the slice of revenue it represents. The
scenario is also representative of a growing problem for today's global
supply networks: reliance on just-in-time delivery of very specific and
relatively rare parts to assemble products. Sure you can move quickly to
reduce the impact of the incident, but the temporary shutdown will haunt
you for months---or years---to come.

This type of disaster is certainly not predictable, but the consequences
unfortunately are. How can you ensure that you're prepared for future
disruptions such as this? And, even if there are no disruptions, how can
you make your supply-chain analytics better? The answers lie in how you
set the analytics implementation up, manage it, and who you listen to
for answers.

Go Digital
----------

Even small companies globally source parts these days, and their complex
production processes reflect that. In order to manage such a complex,
tightly-orchestrated sourcing and production environment, many companies
are implementing digital supply networks (DSN). With a DSN, you create
an ecosystem where information flows from suppliers, to producers, to
logistics partners seamlessly. Information flow is on-demand, near
real-time. That flow creates almost instantaneous insights that are
accessible to all interested and authorized parties.

To be sure, a catastrophic fire is almost impossible to predict.
However, more predictable disruptions---e.g., labor unrest, economic
uncertainty, shipping delays or bottlenecks, and global political
issues---can be better managed when information flows more quickly, and
insights can be acted on in near-real-time to anticipate and solve
problems. Perhaps even your supplier's catastrophic fire could have been
less disastrous if your management had had better insights to the fact
that the supplier was a potential bottleneck due to its unique function
within the network, and had more effectively spread the sourcing of
these unique parts.

Manage from the Top
-------------------

The C-Suite must drive the process to embed supply chain analytics into
the fabric of the organization. One-off analytics initiatives on a
department-by-department basis won't cut it. Your information---and thus
your supply chain---will be fragmented. Moreover, the chain will remain
just that---a chain in which links are easily broken and disruptions
become disasters.

It's absolutely critical that efforts to use analytics to build better
supply chains (DSNs, if you want my humble opinion) be a fundamental
objective of the strategic plan, and that executive performance be
measured---in part---on the company's ability to improve its
supply-chain performance. Otherwise, the C-suite will be focused on
other issues and supply-chain analytics will take a back burner. This
will leave you under-prepared to predict and/or deal with eventual
disruptions.

Listen to the Bottom
--------------------

Most investment bankers likely know very little about designing cars,
and I probably wouldn't trust the VP of production at auto company to
underwrite an IPO. What I'm getting at here is that industry knowledge
is important. This is true for analytics implementation---especially
when you're talking supply-chain analytics. You can hire all the quant
jocks you want, but if they don't have some industry knowledge, they
won't be able to produce many helpful analytical insights, because they
don't really understand how the whole process works---and how
information flows, and needs to flow.

They may focus on the wrong data, or they may miss crucial pieces of
information that someone with industry knowledge wouldn't. So whether
you build in-house, or you outsource to consultants, a critical
requirement for implementing supply chain analytics is to make sure that
the data scientists and analysts you hire are steeped in your industry
enough to understand what the data is telling them.

Further, they must be willing to engage with, and listen to, people
within the organization that do have that knowledge. Otherwise, you're
just getting a lot of fun facts and numbers that may or may not tell you
the entire story. And with the potential for disruptions to turn into
disasters, you don't need that. You need actionable information that
drives quicker, better decisions.

Nothing is Certain
------------------

Your business environment is more fragilely connected than you think.
Catastrophes such as this one are rare and unpredictable, but others,
not so much. You can be better prepared to handle disruptions if you
implement analytics with a few simple caveats: go digital as much as
possible to derive faster, better insights; lead from the top to drive
coordinated implementation; and listen to the people who know your
business best so that you get better answers and make better decisions.
