Welcome to the Now of Analytics

So, you've got your analytics environment set up nicely for your
business. You have hindsight into what has happened, some understanding
as to why it might have happened, and some pretty good predictive---and
maybe even prescriptive---capabilities. Those insights are driving
better decisions and helping you make your operations more efficient.
But, o you have some sort of artificial intelligence (AI) capabilities
built into your analytics infrastructure? If not, you're in the same
boat with the majority of companies, but that boat is quickly sinking.

Leading companies have begun to realize that AI is the technology that
will take their analytics to the next, very powerful, level and
revolutionize their business. [Artificial
intelligence](https://www.teradata.com/Resources/Web-Casts/Bring-Artificial-Intelligence-to-the-Enterprise-Ho)---in
the way I'm using it here---can also be used synonymously with cognitive
computing (CC). While there's really no agreed-on definition of CC, I
define it as hardware and/or software that simulates human thinking.
AI/CC has three characteristics:

1.  It learns as information changes---even in real time.

2.  It can understand data in contextual terms, and it can help you
    interact---or can interact on its own---with users, using that
    contextual information.

3.  It is curious. It remembers previous events and asks questions,
    returns answers, and makes recommendations based on those events.

The Power of Intelligence
-------------------------

AI/CC brings tremendous, [transformative
power](https://www.teradata.com/Resources/Brochures/Bringing-Artificial-Intelligence-to-the-Enterprise)
to those companies that embed it into their analytics infrastructures.

### It changes the way you operate

With AI/CC you can transform your traditional supply chain into a
digital supply network (DSN) that is connected, smart, scalable, and
flexible. You can use that intelligence to drive coordinated planning,
24/7 connections with suppliers and customers, smart production models,
and dynamic logistics operations that can help you adjust quickly, as
your needs change.

DSNs are highly-adaptable, interwoven---almost organic---ecosystems that
help you optimize the operation of your production processes and your
relationships with suppliers. They will help you maximize the value of
every step in your product and work flow to deliver the right products
to the right people, at the right time.

### It changes the way you make decisions

AI/CC uses information much like the human brain. It draws on experience
(information, past and present) to make connections and form hypotheses.
It can make recommendations based on that information---and it can
adjust on the fly, based on new information it receives. Your decisions
will be smarter and faster.

And what's really transformative is that AI/CC-enabled-systems get
smarter over time, as they couple the past with the present to create an
environment for contextual learning that continuously evolves and
improves to deliver better long-term insights and decision-making
capabilities.

### It changes how you view and interact with your customers

Customers today---especially those ultra-valuable millennials---want a
plethora of channels available for interaction. The phone is dead. Yet,
they also want a deeply personal---intimate---relationship with
retailers and service providers. AI/CC hits the sweet spot. Chat
bots---think Siri[^1] or Alexa[^2]---are revolutionizing customer
service. For customer service purposes, chat bots---even if they don't
employ voice capabilities---use AI to facilitate "personalized" customer
contact while freeing up actual humans to handle deeper, or more complex
issues.

AI/CC can also leverage previous information about customer interactions
to predict current and future needs and can offer "smart" suggestions
for services, offers, or promotions that are individualized for
particular customers. With such individualized information, you can
create a deeply intimate relationship with your customers that builds
extreme loyalty and maximizes customer value, both now and in the
future.

Welcome to Now
--------------

To be sure, AI/CC is the wave of the future, but that wave is beginning
to crest. You can either ride it, or be left standing as it rolls by.
I'd lay good odds that your competition is almost certainly putting
AI/CC capabilities on its near-term wish list. Are you?

I'd love to hear from you! Email me at <anuraag.jain@teradata.com>, or
contact me on [Linkedin](https://www.linkedin.com/in/anujain) or
[Twitter](https://twitter.com/dinojain).

[^1]: Siri is a registered trademark of Apple Inc.

[^2]: Alexa is a registered trademark of Amazon.com, Inc.
