In my last blog, I talked about Analytics Ops and embedding analytics in
your corporate DNA. It's a critical factor in achieving analytics
success, but it's not easy---by any means. There are several challenges
that you'll need to overcome along the way. Fortunately, none of those
challenges are impossible to meet. It just takes the right strategy to
recognize the challenges and develop an effective approach to overcome
them.

Business, architectural, and deployment challenges in developing an
embedded analytics culture are myriad. These issues often derail
analytics initiatives before they get started, and you must each one of
them to achieve measurable analytics success.

Many companies don't have IT people who are deeply knowledgeable about
analytics and how to deploy analytics capabilities---especially at
scale. Further, even if there are folks who possess analytics knowledge,
management may not feel that they can expend the money on what they see
as a high-dollar project with specious chances of success.

Also, even if they are willing to purchase analytics technology, current
systems may not enable access to the amount, or types, of data required
to facilitate complex, in-depth analysis. Finally, management---if they
have little experience with analytics---may not understand how to fully
translate the insights provided by analytics systems into true
operational improvement.

Architecturally, many companies struggle to make sense of the complexity
and range of choices of analytics toolsets available to them. This is
often exacerbated by the presence of existing tools and silos of
technology within the organization. People are also often hesitant to
embrace change. These problems are again made worse by the pressure to
deliver the analytics initiative quickly, and at optimal TCO.

Once the business challenges have been addressed, and they've developed
what they believe is a sound analytics infrastructure, many companies
also face seemingly intractable challenges when they're ready to deploy
their newly minted systems. Even with a plan in place, there's often a
lack of resources available for deployment and those critical, initial
several months after rollout. Typically, there's also a fair amount of
uncertainty over whether the system will be powerful enough to provide
the insights management demands, and whether the system will be flexible
and scalable enough to change and grow as the business grows and needs
change.

All these challenges are difficult, and it's critical to address them to
achieve a successful analytics deployment, but they're not
insurmountable. To overcome these challenges, you need a comprehensive
analytics strategy that successfully addresses the business,
architectural, and deployment issues you'll face.

Sound analytics strategies are based on comprehensive development and
deployment frameworks that address both business and technical aspects
of the analytics initiative. Successful analytics frameworks are those
that stress rapid prototyping and decision-making that will deliver high
value and impact to your organization and that set you up for
sustainable success. These frameworks generally cover four areas:

-   Design

-   Alignment

-   Value creation

-   Evaluation metrics

A sound analytics framework will provide you with a roadmap to achieve
your goals. It will contain milestones and rapid-development
methodologies to create quick-win deliverables that are unique to your
organization. The roadmap should contain an overall conceptual analytics
strategy, a model for analytics integration---both architecturally and
operationally; strategies to address change management; and strategies
to develop a performance management matrix that enables you to measure
success.

Your analytics framework should also include strategies for aligning
your analytics architecture with your business---in terms of your
expectations for the system and how the infrastructure will be built to
support your expectations. The alignment portion of the framework should
also address how to manage change within the organization and align your
team's expectations for the system with your goals and with the reality
of what the system is designed to deliver.

In addition to aligning the reality and expectations for analytics, your
framework should also outline how the system will create value for your
organization. It should answer questions such as, "What are the industry
best practices that we can leverage to really get us focused on using
analytics to create value for our company?" and "How can we best use the
tool(s) we've selected to provide us with the insight we require?"

Speaking of insight, the only way you'll know if you're achieving your
goals is if you have a quantitative measurement system in place. A
thorough analytics framework will help you develop these metrics. Your
metrics shouldn't be pre-defined; they're unique to your company. Beware
of vendors that have all the metrics defined up front for you. You need
to measure what makes you successful, not what makes other companies
successful.

If you have the proper analytics framework in place, you can overcome
the challenges you'll certainly face, and you can deliver sustainable
success with your analytics initiative, no matter what your goals are.
Remember, the bottom line is that analytics serves one purpose: to
derive more actionable insights and deliver the ability to act on those
insights to deliver continuous business value.
