---
title: 'Think it. Change it. Do it.'
---

What are you hoping to accomplish with an analytics and/or data science
implementation? Can you define it both qualitatively and quantitatively?
In simple terms, with the analytics piece, you're probably looking for
answers to questions you have, and with the data science piece, you're
probably looking for new insights and questions you didn't even know you
had. Abstract that, though, and what you're really looking for is
change: a change in the amount and quality of information you have about
your business or your customers, and a change in the depth and breadth
of insights your information systems provide.

But what drives change? Think back to your algebra days. All changes are
really just functions---inputs determining outputs: X Δ Y. You have a
goal---Y---and you have to understand the variables to plug in to reach
that goal---X. The X will determine the Y. The input will determine the
outcome. It's really that simple. What's not so simple, though, is
determining the X part. What X will drive the best Y? As in algebra, the
Y is totally dependent on the X, i.e., reaching your goal is totally
dependent on how you choose to get there.

Think it
========

Define your goals clearly: if I knew A, I would do B, to drive C. For
example, you could define a goal as, "If I knew more about how my
customers act across channels and at individual interaction points, I
would create more personalized offers, at the most opportune times, to
increase my conversion rates and drive revenue increases across product
lines.

Once you've defined your goals, the next step is to figure out what will
drive the biggest change in your business and deliver the greatest
benefit. Usually it's the biggest pain point you have---either a lack of
usable data or not enough analytics firepower to glean insights from it.
In essence, you're always thinking about the biggest Xs that will drive
the biggest Ys. You're always asking, "Which inputs can I use to drive
the best outcomes for my business?"

Change it
=========

Once you've identified your X Δ Y, you'll need to get the right tools
and platforms to handle the data you need to make your plans a reality.
There a few must-haves. First, make sure the tools match your data
needs. Data mining technology will give you deep insights into the
business and will also help you harvest that low hanging fruit.
Statistical analysis tools will help you perform sensitivity analysis
and uncover hidden relationships in data. Machine learning technology
will help you predict events and automate decisions.

Also, make sure the technology can grow with you so that you can ensure
that you can get the answers you need, when you need it, both now and in
the future. Whether your platform is on-premise, in the cloud, or a
hybrid environment, it needs to fit your business needs, not the sales
quota of your vendor.

Finally, embrace change. Shift your paradigm to build a data culture. If
you've built good systems, you can trust your numbers. Do that. Gut
instinct is fine, but it needs to be backed by hard numbers. Once you're
up and running, you'll start receiving answers to questions you didn't
know you had. Use that information to effect change and meet your goals.

Do it
=====

Operationalize analytics. Make analytics a repeatable process---complete
with good data governance and self-service analytics capabilities---that
enables you to solve your problems more quickly. You can build analytics
models, one at a time, as you go along, but the better way is to find a
technology vendor whose products come with a complete set of tools with
pre-built models you can customize.

With operationalized analytics, you're able to realize one of the
biggest benefits of an analytics culture: you'll be able to find those
Xs that help you reach your Ys more quickly than you could before---and
more quickly than your competition. With the ability to develop faster,
deeper insights and act on those insights more quickly, you can reduce
your opportunity cost and show a clear ROI---and get a leg up on the
competition.
