Is Big Data Analytics the Next Dirty Word?
==========================================

If you're 40+, you may remember 15-20 years ago when data warehousing
was the THING. Every company that could afford to build one was either
in the process, or thinking about it. According to the pundits at the
time, the data warehouse (DW) would revolutionize business. It would
give you quicker, deeper, more actionable insights and allow you to have
foresight as well, so that you could make predictions about your future
and better decisions on how to leverage that future to your advantage.

Unfortunately, even though there were many DW success stories (think Wal
Mart and Amazon) there were also some major horror stories. Many
companies that tried to build enterprise DWs fell into a quagmire of
bungled requirements, dirty data, and technology overload, and their DWs
crashed and burned spectacularly. So, even though many companies now
have DWs as the stalwart of their IT infrastructures, the concept has a
really bad name and is sometimes used as metaphor for failure.

![](media/image1.png){width="4.048611111111111in"
height="2.5756944444444443in"}Big data may be on the cusp of going the
way of the DW. Today's pundits are shouting virtually the same accolades
at big data analytics as they were about DWs. Harnessing big data can
theoretically give you the power to extract better, actionable insights
and provide both predictive and prescriptive capabilities. However, big
data is also causing headaches at many companies because they simply
don't understand how to effectively exploit its massive potential.

The numbers don't lie. Despite the fact that large companies are on an
analytics spending binge---IDC predicts that by 2019, companies will
spend \$187 billion per year on analytics initiatives---these projects
are often riddled with complications[^1]. Indeed, according to one
Gartner analyst, upwards of 85% of big data projects will experience
some degree of failure.[^2] What's more, 75% of CEOs feel that they're
doing the best they can with their data, but in reality, only about 43%
are actually positioned for success.[^3]

How Smart Companies Avoid Failure
---------------------------------

There are companies that are doing big data right. Approximately 57% of
companies in North America are doing a decent job of wringing valuable
insights from their big data analytics projects. What are these
companies doing that their competitors aren't?

### They are Data Driven

Companies that are gleaning accurate, actionable insights from the
mountains of data they're wrangling on a daily basis have made the
commitment to move away from trusting their gut for decision-making
toward relying on the data. It's hard---especially when those in the
C-suite have decades of experience and their gut is telling them one
thing and the numbers say another. However, if---and this is a big
if---you have analysts who have deep domain experience, you can trust
them to interpret the numbers correctly and provide insights that your
gut can't.

### They Get the Tools They Need

There are myriad tools on the market, and every vendor out there will
tell you that their tool is the right one for you. It's not. The tool
that's right for you is the one that will enable you to get the answers
you seek. And that's the catch. To get the right tools, you have to ask
the right questions. So, really, it's not a technical issue, it's a
knowledge---and leadership---issue.

![](media/image2.png){width="4.272916666666666in"
height="2.9298611111111112in"}Everyone can contribute to asking the
right questions. The C-suite provides strategic direction, and knowledge
workers provide deep industry knowledge and business questions. Those
questions---and the technology you need to answer them---will determine
your infrastructure.

### They are on the Same Page---Enterprise Wide

Fully 88% of companies that are doing well with big data say they have a
handle on how information flows through the organization. [^4]They're on
the same page as to how information affects their job---and how it
affects their co-workers' jobs. That's important, because an
understanding of information flows leads to an understanding of what
information you need, and where the gaps in that information lie. When
you know the gaps, you can begin to fill them. Those gaps will give you
the insight you need to answer the questions you have and glean value
from your analytics.

Big Data Doesn't Have to be a Dirty Word
----------------------------------------

It's clear that many companies have a lot of work left to do to realize
the potential of big data. Those that are doing it right are reaping the
benefits. Those that aren't are running into some serious headwinds and
are feeling the burn of failure. If big data is to live up to its
promise, today's companies will have to tread on the shoulders of those
who failed with their data warehouses and learn from their mistakes:
become data driven, get the right tools to answer their critical
questions, and understand what information they need, and how it flows
through the enterprise.

[^1]: <https://www.cio.com/article/3074238/analytics/big-data-and-analytics-spending-to-hit-187-billion.html>.
    Retrieved May 16, 2018

[^2]: <https://www.techrepublic.com/article/85-of-big-data-projects-fail-but-your-developers-can-help-yours-succeed/>.
    Retrieved May 15, 2018

[^3]: <https://www.cio.com/article/3003538/big-data/study-reveals-that-most-companies-are-failing-at-big-data.html>
    Retrieved May 15, 2018

[^4]: ibid
