Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning---Optimization, Redefined

Many people I talk to---especially those in the C-suite---are excited
about artificial intelligence (AI), and machine learning (ML) in
particular. However, they're a little fuzzy on exactly how it can help
them. There's a lot of information flying around about AI and ML, but
much of it is contradictory, and it's hard to discern the truth from the
hype.

Yes, AI and ML will revolutionize the way you do business in the
future---in ways we can't imagine now. In this blog, we'll take a look
at some potential uses of AI/ML in finance, retail, and
manufacturing/supply chain. My guess is you'll find something that
applies to you, and my hope is that it will incent you to get started
with your own journey to optimize your own business.

### The Future of AI and ML in Finance and Insurance

In the future, instead of chatting with a customer service
representative, you'll chat with a bot that has natural language
processing capabilities and is armed with tons of customer specific
interaction data---and that will mimic the human-to-human chatting
capabilities available today.

AI and ML will also enhance security and market analysis capabilities.
Biometric data such as face, voice, or even retinal recognition will
become the norm for security measures. And, investment banks and hedge
funds will use AI and ML to perform deep analysis to better understand
the human and social factors that influence markets and use that
sentiment analysis to make better decisions.

### AI and ML in Retail

In the next half decade, retailers will use AI and ML to make
predictions about inventory needs and adjust levels in real time. These
systems will make suggestions to store managers about which items to
order, and in some cases, companies may enable them to make purchases
without human intervention.

Product placement will also get a boost from AI. Gaze detection
technologies will be used to analyze customer interest and place
products in ways that optimize foot traffic patterns and visual
attention. These systems will also analyze that foot traffic and direct
product placement based on not just seasonal, but demographic trends
such as age, gender, etc. Think: older women tend to shop on Thursday,
so we'll put products of interest to them in high-traffic areas.

Another obvious trend for AI/ML augmentation will be in loss prevention.
Detection of customers (and employees) exhibiting suspicious behavior
will be made easier by algorithms that leverage big data to better
understand behavior patterns. Care is needed here, however to
scrupulously avoid profiling behavior at all costs.

### AI and ML in Manufacturing/Supply Chain

Over the next five to ten years, AI and ML will also revolutionize the
business for large logistics companies and manufacturers. AI and ML will
be used to eliminate many manual processes now handled by humans:
invoice exception tracking, responses to inquiries, purchase order
corrections, etc. Think of how much this could free up employees to
engage in productive tasks.

Other leading companies will use chat bots (see finance above) to engage
with suppliers in routine communications, place purchase orders, monitor
regulatory compliance vis-Ã -vis materials, and to keep up with the
voluminous documentation that often bedevils---and slows
down---logistics operations.

Another obvious application of AI/ML (and one that syncs well with
retail) that will become prevalent is inventory
forecasting---correlating supply with demand and optimizing
decision-making processes with intelligent algorithms and ML augmented
analysis of big data.

The Future is Now
-----------------

Many AI/ML applications I've discussed are only one to five years out on
the horizon---the blink of an eye. Get ready, because the future is
coming. Humans won't be replaced, but our capabilities will be greatly
enhanced by AI/ML. Companies that use AI/ML to enhance their processes
will improve their top and bottom-line revenues and grow at rates that
outperform the competition. Those that don't, well...
